










































1

Jacobs
1132 Bishop Street

Suite 1100 Honolulu, HI 96813)
O +1.808.943.1133
F +1.808.954.4400: 

www.jacobs.com

August 31, 2020

Mr. Juan Rivera, P.E
WWRD Design and Construction Section
County of Maui
Department of Environmental Management
2050 Main Street, Suite 2B
Wailuku, Maui, Hawai’i 96793

Project: Central Maui Regional WWRF - FY21 QBS Project CBS-3206

Subject:  Response to Request for Information 

Dear Mr. Rivera,

The County of Maui’s (County’s) vision for a new greenfield wastewater reclamation facility (WWRF) to serve growing communities in Central 
Maui demonstrates the County’s foresight and commitment to its residents. Successful completion of this project requires a trusted partner 
for the County to address the challenges associated with planning, design, and construction of the WWRF—while also capitalizing on the 
unique opportunities a new facility will provide such as energy optimization, automation, and reuse. Jacobs has served as your trusted partner 
on many significant projects over the past 50 years including the design of the 4 million gallon per day (mgd) greenfield Kihei Sewerage 
System with capacity to serve the Kihei and Wailea development. We are committed to your success in the planning and implementation of 
the Central Maui Regional WWRF and provide significant benefits to successfully complete this critical project as detailed below.  

Our proven Lahaina WWRF Stage 1A Improvements Project Team will serve as the foundation for delivering the Central Maui Regional WWRF 
project, by bringing valuable lessons learned from collaboratively and proactively working with your WWRD staff and operators to address 
project challenges as they emerge. The core project delivery team for the Lahaina Project will serve similar roles on the Central Maui Regional 
WWRF project to ensure rapid project start-up, bring their positive working relationships with your staff, and facilitate communication 
between the County and our Project Team. The Leadership Team of Tony Ali (Project Manager), Bruce Johnson, Dale Gabel, and 
Bill Leaf (Process Engineering), and Kandi Maestri and Carl Koester (Design Management) understand your needs and 
preferred approaches, and will provide management and guidance of the entire project team to ensure the project meets your needs and 
requirements. Our leadership team will be supported by technical experts Abbey Mayer and Nancy Nishikawa, who have extensive 
Maui infrastructure development experience and to provide the planning and permitting support needed for the development of a new 
greenfield facility. Diane Wakamatsu (Go Maui, Inc.) will provide guidance on effective public engagement activities to reach and 
obtain valuable input from County residents. 

Our project approach will focus on delivering the Central Maui Regional WWRF project within 
the allocated budget. We will use our advanced Conceptual and Parametric Engineering 
System (CPES™) to support critical decisions on the cost of treatment system alternatives 
and technology options to aid in selection. This parametric design and cost estimating tool 
that generates quick, accurate, and detailed project‐specific designs, equipment and material 
quantities, and construction and life‐cycle costs at the conceptual design stage. This powerful 
tool will enable the project team to quickly and accurately evaluate potential changes to the 
project and develop approaches to maintain budget. Additional funding sources, such as 
technology grants and Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (WIFIA) loans will be 
evaluated to augment the County’s budget. 

Our proven ability to deliver similar projects on schedule will enable the County to meet its 
commitments to County residents and system users. Delivering the Project on schedule will 
require the County and key stakeholders to make key decisions in a timely and defensible manner. Using our state-of-the-art Multi-Objective 
Decision Analysis (MODA) tool will facilitate vetting and decision making. In addition, other schedule enhancements will be evaluated by the 
Project Team, such as project phasing and alternative delivery methods (such as design-build and design-build-operate). 



2

Our project strategy involves a holistic approach in developing the optimal solution that capitalizes on the unique opportunities of a 
greenfield treatment facility. Based on our extensive experience in operating over 200 treatment facilities around the world, we have found 
that energy, chemicals, and biosolids handling are all uniquely expensive in Hawaii, which enables energy optimization alternatives to be 
feasible that might not normally be considered. For example, anaerobic digestion and combined heat and power (CHP) generation would not 
normally be considered for a plant of this size. However, the high cost of power and biosolids disposal would likely show a net benefit on Maui 
for these technologies, especially if other solids sources (food waste, Lahaina sludge, grease trap waste) were brought to the site for digestion. 
Other opportunities include membrane bioreactors (MBR) to produce a consistent high-quality effluent, low maintenance natural treatment 
systems for nitrogen polishing combined with floating solar cells to provide green energy, and advanced treatment technologies such as 
membrane aerated biofilm reactors (MABR) for ultra-low energy usage. Our holistic approach will consider aesthetic impacts to neighbors 
and the availability of on-island equipment and redundancy requirements due to the potential for long delays in replacement parts, as well 
as the technical skill set of on-island staff.

We will establish a local project office to promote improved and timely personal communication between the County and Jacobs staff and our 
“best-in-class” experts to resolve issues. The Jacobs Maui Office will be supported by staff in Honolulu and our mainland and international 
design centers.

Please find enclosed the requested information related to our interest in the CBS-3206 Central Maui Regional WWRF project at Waikapu. We 
have completed 11 project questionnaires to demonstrate our breadth and depth of experience relevant to the Waikapu WWRF Project. We 
have also included additional information regarding the types of services, project approach, potential technology, and key personnel that 
will be valuable to the County for the execution of this project. Please do not hesitate to contact Tony or me if you have any questions or need 
additional information or clarification.

Sincerely,

Jacobs

Ross A. Kaneko, P.E.
Client Account Manager
808.440.0225 
ross.kaneko@jacobs.com

Tony T. Ali, P.E., PMP
Project Manager
808.440.0208
tony.ali@jacobs.com

MODA Step 1: Non-monetary criteria reflect 
County and Stakeholder values

MODA Step 2: Benefit-cost analysis identifies 
best balance of monetary and non-monetary 
considerations



CBS-3206 Central Maui Regional WWRF | County of Maui 1

1  Questionnaires
Questionnaires
The following pages contain a selection of Jacobs’ recently 
completed projects, which highlight our experience with 
greenfield water reclamation facilities similar to the Central 
Maui Regional WWRF. This also includes projects that 
demonstrate our experience with practical, state-of-the-art 

technology that is valuable to consider for greenfield plants. 
We have included Table 1-1 below to provide an overview of 
related services relevant to the Central Maui Regional WWRF 
project.

Please refer to the completed questionnaires on on the 
following pages for more information.

TABLE 1-1: RELEVANT PROJECTS La
h

ai
n

a 
W

W
R

F,
 H

I

S
p

o
ka

n
e 

C
o

u
n

ty
 

R
W

R
F,

 W
A

C
lo

vi
s 

W
R

F,
 C

A

N
o

rt
h

er
n

 T
re

at
m

en
t 

P
la

n
t,

 C
O

A
g

u
a 

N
u

ev
a 

W
R

F,
 A

Z

C
h

an
g

i W
R

P,
 

S
in

g
ap

o
re

H
o

n
o

u
li

u
li

 W
W

T
P,

 H
I

N
o

rt
h

 L
as

 V
eg

as
 

W
R

F,
 N

V

H
en

d
er

so
n

 
S

o
u

th
w

es
t 

W
R

F,
 N

V

G
ip

p
sl

an
d

 W
at

er
 

Fa
ct

o
ry

, A
u

st
ra

li
a

B
ri

g
h

tw
at

er
 

Tr
ea

tm
en

t 
P

la
n

t,
 W

A

Green Field Site ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓

Planning and Permitting ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓

Community Engagement ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓

Biological Nutrient Removal ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓

R-1 Effluent Quality ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓

Disposal into Soil Aquifer Treatment Basins ✓

Around 5 mgd flow, but <10 mgd Advanced Water Facility (ADWF) ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓

Advanced Controls ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓

Potable Reuse ✓ ✓ ✓

Energy Utilization ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓

Vertical Design (i.e. buildings – admin, dewatering, etc) ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓

Odor Control (low odors) ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓

Design-Build ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓

Design-Build-Operate ✓ ✓ ✓

Solids Reduction ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓

Membrane Treatment ✓ ✓ ✓

Green Energy ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓

Green Construction ✓ ✓ ✓

Low Community Impact Plant (i.e. buried plant) ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓



CBS-3206 Central Maui Regional WWRF | County of Maui2

CONSULTANT: JACOBS

Lahaina WWRF Stage 1A Improvements
Lahaina, Maui, Hawaii
PLANT CHARACTERISTICS Size: 9 mgd

Service Area: 11,000 people

Process Used: Parallel MLE and 3-Pass Step Feed MLE bioreactor followed by disk 
filtration. 

Effluent Quality: R1 reuse quality

Effluent Disposal: Reuse water users and injection wells

COMPLETION DATE Design: 2017

Construction: 2020

DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION COSTS Design: $6.3 million

Construction: $50 million

PERMITTING Permitting cost: $50,000 (estimated)

Permitting Duration: 6 months (approximately)

DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION TIME Design: 9 months

Construction: 36 months

DESIGN TEAM Design Team: Jacobs Design Center professionals including Tony Ali, Kandi Maestri, 
Bruce Johnson, Bill Leaf, Carl Koester, Jennifer Chang, Lionel Wood, Stephanie 
McGregor

Office Location: Honolulu, Hawaii; Corvallis, Oregon; Denver, Colorado; Boise, Idaho

Subconsultants: Cultural Surveys Hawaii (Archeological), Fewell Geotechnical 
Engineering, RT Tanaka Engineers Inc (Civil Survey)

Contractor: Kiewit Infrastructure Group

REFERENCE Juan Rivera, PE, CE-VI, Supervisor of Design and Construction, Wastewater 
Reclamation Division Phone: 808.270.7268

OTHER INFORMATION Please refer to the attached project sheet for additional information.



CBS-3206 Central Maui Regional WWRF | County of Maui 3

CONSULTANT: JACOBS

Spokane County Regional Water Reclamation Facility  
Design-Build-Operate Project
Spokane County, Washington
PLANT CHARACTERISTICS Size: 8 mgd

Service Area: 120,000 people

Process Used: Chemically Enhanced Primary Treatment, Membrane Bioreactor, 
Anaerobic Digestion, Post Aerobic Digestion, Co-Generation

Effluent Quality: Achieves lowest phosphorus effluent levels in North America at 50 
ppb (to the Spokane River). Ability to meet Class A reclaimed water requirements 
with total nitrogen (TN) < 10 mg/L

Effluent Disposal: Outfall to Spokane River

COMPLETION DATE Design-Build: 2009 - 2011

Operations & Maintenance (O&M): 2011 - 2031

DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION COSTS Design-Build Construction: $132 million

Operating: $6 million annually

PERMITTING Permitting Cost: $250,000

Permitting Duration: 2009 - 2013 (approximately 48 months)

DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION TIME Design-Build-Operate Contract

Design/Build: 2009 - 2011 (finished 6 months ahead of plan)

DESIGN TEAM Design Team: Jacobs Design Center professionals including Bruce Johnson, Bill Leaf, 
Carl Koester, Glen Daigger, Rick Smith, Dennis Nelson, Adam McClymont

Office Location: Corvallis, Oregon

Subconsultants: N/A

Contractor: Jacobs

REFERENCE Ben Brattebo, Water Reclamation Engineer

Phone: 509.477.7521

OTHER INFORMATION Please refer to the attached project sheet for additional information.



CBS-3206 Central Maui Regional WWRF | County of Maui4

CONSULTANT: JACOBS

Clovis Water Reuse Facility
Clovis, California
PLANT CHARACTERISTICS Size: 2.8 mgd (average), 5.6 mgd (peak)

Service Area: 100,000 people

Process Used: MLE MBR Process with Cannibal Solids Reduction Process,  
followed by aerobic digestion and dewatering.

Effluent Quality: California Title 22 reuse

Effluent Disposal: Reuse in the Clovis/Fresno area

COMPLETION DATE Design-Build: 2006 - 2009

O&M: 2009 - 2018

DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION COSTS Design-Build: $37 million contract value

PERMITTING Permitting Cost: $250,000 (estimated)

Permitting Duration: 48 months (approximately)

DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION TIME Design-Build-Operate Contract

Design-Build: 36 months

DESIGN TEAM Design Team: Jacobs Design Center professionals

Office Location: Denver, Colorado

Subconsultants: N/A

Contractor: CH2M Hill

REFERENCE Lisa Koehn, Assistant Public Utilities Director

155 N. Sunnyside Ave, Clovis, CA 93611

Phone: 559.324.2607 

Email: lisak@ci.clovis.ca.us

OTHER INFORMATION Please refer to the attached project sheet for additional information.



CBS-3206 Central Maui Regional WWRF | County of Maui 5

CONSULTANT: JACOBS

Northern Treatment Plant
Brighton, Colorado
PLANT CHARACTERISTICS Size: 24 mgd (average); 51 mgd (peak)

Service Area: 80,000 people (estimated)

Process Used: Fine Screens, Primary Clarification, 2-pass step feed 5-stage 
Bardenpho, tertiary clarification and granular media filtration.  Solids includes 
primary sludge fermentation/thickening, WAS thickening, Anaerobic digestion + 
Post Aerobic Digestion and dewatering.

Effluent Quality: Design for maximum day nitrate of 10 mg/L and effluent total 
phosphorus of 0.1 mg P/L

Effluent Disposal: River Discharge

COMPLETION DATE Progressive Design-Build: 2011 - 2016

DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION COSTS Progressive Design Build: $255 million

PERMITTING Permitting Cost: $1.2 million (estimated)

Permitting Duration: 24 months (estimated)

DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION TIME Design-Build-Operate Contract

Design: 24 months

Construction: 36 months

DESIGN TEAM Design Team: Jacobs Design Center professionals including Bruce Johnson, Dave 
Oerke, Steve Patterson, Dale Gabel, Bryan Youker, Scott Champlin

Office Location: Denver, Colorado

Subconsultants: Brown and Caldwell

Contractor: Jacobs

REFERENCE Available upon request.

OTHER INFORMATION Please refer to the attached project sheet for additional information.



CBS-3206 Central Maui Regional WWRF | County of Maui6

CONSULTANT: JACOBS

Agua Nueva Water Reclamation Facility
Pima County, Arizona
PLANT CHARACTERISTICS Size: 32 mgd (average); 64 mgd (peak)

Service Area: 150,000 households

Process Used: DAF Primary Clarification, 3-pass Step-Feed, 5-Stage Bardenpho 
process with simultaneous nitrification and denitrification, followed by disk filtration 
and chloramination disinfection.

Effluent Quality: Total Nitrogen less than 8 mg N/L, Total Phosphorus less than 1 mg 
P/L and effluent ammonia less than 1.75 mg/L.  Non-detect fecal coliforms 4 of 7 
samples and THM’s less than 80 µg/L.

Effluent Disposal: Aquifer storage and Reuse and dry wash discharge.

COMPLETION DATE Design-Build: 2010 - 2013

O&M: 2013 - 2028 (+5 option)

DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION COSTS Design-Build: $162.8M

PERMITTING Permitting Cost: $800,000 (estimated)

Permitting Duration: 36 months (estimated)

DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION TIME Design-Build-Operate Contract

Design-Build: 2010 - 2013

DESIGN TEAM Design Team: Jacobs Design Center professionals including Ron Williams, 
Bruce Johnson, Steve Patterson, Jennifer Phillips, Bill Baxter, Ted Dean, 
Eugene Baskin, Bryan Youker

Office Location: Denver, Colorado; Phoenix, Arizona; Sacramento, California; and 
Spokane, Washington

Subconsultants: N/A

Contractor: Jacobs

REFERENCE Jackson Jenkins, Pima County Director

Phone: 520.724.6549



CBS-3206 Central Maui Regional WWRF | County of Maui 7

OTHER INFORMATION  » Winner, 2014 AAEES Grand Prize in Design
 » Winner, 2014 DBIA Merit Award 
 » Winner, 2014 Arizona Water Wastewater Treatment Project of the Year 
 » Winner, 2013 Water & Wastes Digest Top Water and Wastewater Project
 » Winner, 2013 Environmental Business Journal Water/Wastewater Project 

Merit Award 

Testimonial: 

“Jacobs’ performance was excellent on all fronts. Their delivery methodology was 
founded on a true spirit of partnering, implemented in the earliest project stages 
and sustained throughout delivery.... We are very pleased with project results – 
a project delivered $2 million below the final contract value and completed 8 
months early.”

-Jackson Jenkins, Director, Pima County Regional Wastewater 
Reclamation Department

Visit:  
https://www.jacobs.com/what-we-do/projects/agua-nueva-water-reclamation-
facility 

Community Impact:

Agua Nueva’s footprint is smaller than any facility of its kind—ensuring the least 
site and environmental impacts at lowest cost to ratepayers. Its landscaping and 
architecture boast colors and textures that mirror the desert’s enduring beauty, 
serving as a good neighbor to nearby residents and businesses. Promoting local 
economic progress, Jacobs more than doubled its local small business participation 
goals, volunteered in the community and hired County operators to operate the new 
plant, providing new jobs and opportunities in Pima County and Jacobs.

Partnership was an enduring theme throughout the project, since this was the 
County’s first DBO project and we were implementing an unproven technology at full 
scale. Our formal partnering program unified the team around 14 guiding principles 
and leveraged the state of the art in collaboration technology—including advanced 
building information modelling (BIM), 3D visualization, site-wide cameras and video 
conferencing to engage Pima County in key activities and decisions at all times.

Please refer to the attached project sheet for additional information.

https://www.jacobs.com/what-we-do/projects/agua-nueva-water-reclamation-facility 
https://www.jacobs.com/what-we-do/projects/agua-nueva-water-reclamation-facility 


CBS-3206 Central Maui Regional WWRF | County of Maui8

CONSULTANT: JACOBS

Changi Water Reclamation Plant – Phase II Expansion
Singapore
PLANT CHARACTERISTICS Size: 53 mgd expansion to 210 mgd

Service Area: 1.6 million people

Process Used: Polymeric and Ceramic MBR. Step feed biological nitrogen removal 
(BNR) technology, extensive odor control technology using scrubbers, anaerobic 
digestion using novel cylinder-shaped digesters, and implementation of the world’s 
largest biosolids thermal drying system.

Effluent Quality: Meets strict standards for drinking water and the highest grade 
quality for reclaimed water for wafer fabrication and manufacturing plants.

Effluent Disposal: Indirect Potable Reuse and ocean discharge

COMPLETION DATE Design: 2015 - 2019

Construction: Forthcoming

DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION COSTS Design: $40 million (estimated)

Construction: $430 million

PERMITTING Permitting Cost: N/A

Permitting Duration: N/A

DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION TIME Design-Build-Operate Contract

Design: 48 months

Construction: TBD months

DESIGN TEAM Design Team: Jacobs Design Center professionals including Colin Newbery, 
Tim Constantine, Peter Burrowes, Bharambe Gokul, and Scott Levesque.

Office Location: Corvallis, Oregon; Toronto, Canada; Atlanta, Georgia; Brisbane, 
Australia; Singapore

Subconsultants: CPG Consultants

Contractor: HSL Constructor Pte Ltd

REFERENCE Yahya Abd Ghani, Singapore Public Utilities Board

Phone: +65.67313368

OTHER INFORMATION Plant Flythrough:  
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I5a7IHT9Hl8&feature=youtu.be

Please refer to the attached project sheet for additional information.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I5a7IHT9Hl8&feature=youtu.be


CBS-3206 Central Maui Regional WWRF | County of Maui 9

CONSULTANT: JACOBS

Honouliuli Wastewater Treatment Plant
Ewa Beach, Hawaii
PLANT CHARACTERISTICS Size: 37 mgd (average), 107 mgd (peak)

Service Area: over 300,000 people

Process Used: Fine Screens, DAF Primary Clarification, 4-pass Step Feed MLE 
Activated Sludge System.  Residuals system includes THP, anaerobic digestion, 
dewatering and drying, along with combined heat and power generation.

Effluent Quality: 30/30 TSS and BOD

Effluent Disposal: Discharge to Water Reuse Treatment Facility and Ocean Outfall

COMPLETION DATE Design: Ongoing

Construction: Ongoing

DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION COSTS Design: $40 million (estimate)

Construction: $500 million (estimate)

PERMITTING Permitting Cost: Unknown; Jacobs is a subconsultant; Prime consultant is completing 
all permitting activities

Permitting Duration: 75 months (estimate) for all four phases

DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION TIME Design-Bid-Build Contracts for construction. Separate contract for portions of the 
treatment facility

Design: 2016 - 2023 for all four phases

Construction: 2018 - 2027 for all four phases

DESIGN TEAM Design Team: Professionals from multiple Jacobs offices connected through 
advanced design software systems. Local support for project provided through 
Honolulu office. Team includes Dale Gabel, Bruce Johnson, Tony Ali, Carl Koester, 
Tom Jones, Alix Firth, Scott Champlin, and Scott Cowden

Office Location: Honolulu, Hawaii; Denver, Colorado; Corvallis, Oregon; Sacramento, 
California

Subconsultants: N/A

Contractor: Phase 1A – Parsons RCI, Inc.; Phase 1B – Nan, Inc.; Phase 1C – TBD; Phase 
1D – TBD

REFERENCE Raj Rath, Project Manager

Phone: 808.768.8767

OTHER INFORMATION Treatment system designs are focused on balancing energy demand and energy 
produced to approach a net energy neutrality. Production of a dried biosolid product 
could be used on public lands, such as golf courses and parks.

Please refer to the attached project sheet for additional information.



CBS-3206 Central Maui Regional WWRF | County of Maui10

CONSULTANT: JACOBS

North Las Vegas Water Reclamation Facility
Las Vegas, Nevada
PLANT CHARACTERISTICS Size: 30 mgd, expandable to 50 mgd

Service Area: 215,000 people

Process Used: Biological phosphorus removal MBR + UV

Effluent Quality: Total Maximum Day Loads (TMDL) agreement, phosphorus, 
ammonia nitrogen and total nitrogen removal limits of <0.15 mg/L, <0.5 mg/L 
and 10 mg/L are met through enhanced biological phosphorus removal (EBPR) 
combined with chemical polishing. Biofilter technology uses an impregnated media 
with natural microbes to absorb odors and biologically break down odors to carbon 
dioxide and water.

Effluent Disposal: Reuse and Outfall to Sloan Channel

COMPLETION DATE Design-Build: 2008 - 2011

DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION COSTS Engineering Cost: $8 million

Construction Cost: $258 million

PERMITTING Permitting Cost: $400,000 (5% of engineering - estimated)

Permitting Duration: 24 months (estimated)

DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION TIME Design-Build-Operate: 36 months

DESIGN TEAM Design Team: Jacobs Design Center professionals including Julian Hoyle, 
George Crawford, and Erdal Zeynep

Office Location: Corvallis, Oregon; Las Vegas, Nevada; Toronto, Canada; 
Santa Monica, California

Subconsultants: N/A

Contractor: CH2M Hill and New Com Construction (CNLV Constructors II)

REFERENCE Dave Bereskin, Utilities Director

Phone: 702.633.1278

OTHER INFORMATION Please refer to the attached project sheet for additional information.



CBS-3206 Central Maui Regional WWRF | County of Maui 11

CONSULTANT: JACOBS

Henderson Southwest Water Reclamation Facility
Henderson, Nevada
PLANT CHARACTERISTICS Size: 8 mgd

Service Area: 200,000 people

Process Used: Sewer Scalping followed by Fine Screening, Step Feed BNR MBR and 
UV Disinfection with advanced odor control. Solids are sent to another facility for 
stabilization.

Effluent Quality: Title 22 Reuse equivalent, Total phosphorus less than 0.1 mg/L and 
Total nitrogen less than 10 mg/L

Effluent Disposal: Reuse/irrigation

COMPLETION DATE 2012

DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION COSTS Design: $7 million (estimated)

Construction: $94 million

PERMITTING Permitting Cost: $500,000 (estimated)

Permitting Duration: 48 months (estimated)

DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION TIME Design-Build-Operate Contract

Design: 2004 - 2008 

Construction: 2008 - 2012

DESIGN TEAM Design Team: Jacobs Design Center professionals including Barb Engleson, 
Tim Constantine, Julian Hoyle, Geoff Kirsten, Ping Tian, and Scott Cowden

Office Location: Corvallis, Oregon; Las Vegas, Nevada

Subconsultants: Brahma Group

Contractor: Sletten Companies

REFERENCE Priscilla Howell, Utility Services Director

Phone: 702.267.4300



CBS-3206 Central Maui Regional WWRF | County of Maui12

OTHER INFORMATION The project budget started at $92,900,000 and experienced only a 1.62% increase 
due to change orders. The very low change order increase places the construction 
cost at $94,404,892.

Berms surrounding the plant are 35 feet tall. The berms help minimize the impact 
of the SWRF facilities on the neighboring communities. To encourage conservation 
efforts, the berms are landscaped with xeriscape and native desert species. A 
neighborhood advisory committee was heavily involved in the design of the site 

Almost everything is either underground or within an enclosed facility. This is to 
minimize any odors and noise. The plant also uses biofilters and granular activated 
carbon canisters to absorb any odors. While the canisters do need to be replaced 
over time, this technology doesn’t require the use of chemicals.

Please refer to the attached project sheet for additional information.



CBS-3206 Central Maui Regional WWRF | County of Maui 13

CONSULTANT: JACOBS

Gippsland Water Factory
Australia
PLANT CHARACTERISTICS Size: 9.2 mgd MBR, 2.1 mgd RO

Service Area: 62,000 people

Process Used: Anaerobic Industrial and sludge pre-treatment followed by MBR + RO 
with cogeneration.

Effluent Quality: 3 mg/L Total Nitrogen

Effluent Disposal: Industrial Reuse and River Discharge

COMPLETION DATE Design-Build: 2009 - 2011

O&M: 2011 - 2031

DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION COSTS Design-Build: $250M (AUD) construction cost

PERMITTING Permitting Cost: N/A

Permitting Duration: N/A 

DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION TIME Design-Build-Operate Contract

Design-Build: 2006-2010 (48 months)

DESIGN TEAM Design Team: Jacobs' Design Team professionals including Andrew Hodgkinson, Jim 
Lozier, and Kim Fries 

Office Location: Melbourne, Australia; Phoenix, Arizona; Calgary, Canada

Subconsultants: N/A

Contractor: CH2M Hill

REFERENCE Peter Skeels, General Manager Operations 

Phone: +613.5177.4800

OTHER INFORMATION Refer to https://youtu.be/i6954bbHbkU

The Gippsland Water Factory has a Banksia for Water Engineering, an International 
Water Association award for Water Reuse and an overall Gold Banksia for 
environmental excellence.

Please refer to the attached project sheet for additional information.

https://youtu.be/i6954bbHbkU


CBS-3206 Central Maui Regional WWRF | County of Maui14

CONSULTANT: JACOBS

Brightwater Treatment Plant
King County, Washington
PLANT CHARACTERISTICS Size: 51 mgd peak month flow

Service Area: Seattle Metropolitan Area

Process Used: Facility uses split-flow treatment with chemically enhanced primary 
clarification process for peak wet weather flow and series primary clarification 
and membrane bioreactor process for dry weather flow to reduce plant footprint 
compared to conventional secondary treatment.  Includes advanced odor control.

Effluent Quality: Class A reclaimed water from MBR and 30/30 BOD/TSS for blended 
discharge to ocean.

Effluent Disposal: Marine outfall to the Puget Sound

COMPLETION DATE 2013

DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION COSTS Design: $47M

Construction: $488M

PERMITTING Permitting Cost: $12 million EIS cost

Permitting Duration: 48 months (approximately

DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION TIME Design-Bid-Build Contract

Design-Build: 2002 - 2013

DESIGN TEAM Design Team: Jacobs Design Team professionals including Pat Burke, Bruce Johnson, 
Scott Cowden, and Bryan Youker

Office Location: Corvallis, Oregon; Seattle, Washington

Subconsultants: 16 subconsultants

Contractor: Hoffman Construction, Kiewit Construction

REFERENCE Stan Hummel, Project Representative

Phone: 206.263.9457

OTHER INFORMATION Please refer to the attached project sheet for additional information.



CBS-3206 Central Maui Regional WWRF | County of Maui 15

Committed to Maui
Since the late 1970s, Jacobs (formerly CH2M) started 
collaborating with the County, to complete operations and 
general civil projects at the Kihei Wastewater Treatment 
Plant. Most recently, Jacobs partnered with the County 
to complete the Lahaina WWRF Stage 1A Improvements 
project to upgrade the existing 9 mgd step-feed aeration 
facility. This project features a state of the art control 
system, a truly duplex operating aeration blower system, 
and dissolved oxygen and ammonia based control approach 
to reduce energy consumption while meeting stringent R-1 
water quality criteria. During the Lahaina WWRF Stage 1A 
Improvements project, our programmers worked directly 
with County operations staff to listen and understand their 
concerns. 

Our Proposed Team
Our proposed design team is an expanded version of 
the team that executed the Lahaina WWRF Stage 1A 
Improvements project to include seasoned planning and 
permitting who are locally based in Hawaii. 

Tony Ali, our proposed project manager, is dedicated to 
providing convenient and in-person communication with 
County staff throughout the duration of this project by 
working in a project office on Maui. Tony will also supervise 
subconsultant firms (geotechnical, surveyors, etc.) needed 
to support this project. Bruce Johnson, Dale Gabel, and 
Bill Leaf will continue to serve the County by providing 
local, national, and global process engineering expertise. 
Our team has immediate availability to start and is fully 
committed to the success of the County. Please refer to the 
organizational chart below for a full overview of our team.

2  Other Information



CBS-3206 Central Maui Regional WWRF | County of Maui16

Highlighted below are our key staff proposed for this project.

KEY STAFF NAME/BIOGRAPHY

Leadership

Ross Kaneko, P.E. Ross will be responsible for overall compliance with the project schedule and the 
County’s objectives. 

As a member of Jacobs’ Northwest leadership team, Ross has knowledge and access to resources that maximize 
efficient project delivery. Should unforeseen challenges arise, Ross will quickly mobilize to initiate quick and balanced 
corrective actions necessary to keep the project on-schedule.

Tony Ali, P.E., PMP Tony is a proven leader that the County can depend on to get the job done right. 
He has led many Jacobs design teams over the years and most recently led the Corvallis-based team for the Lahaina 
WWRF Stage 1A Improvements project. For this effort, Tony has worked together with County staff to facilitate 
contracts and amendments, and to ensure proper Jacobs resources are available for design, construction support, 
startup and training. Tony also has experience serving as the water and wastewater lead for Suncor Energy at Fort Hills 
greenfield membrane water and greenfield wastewater treatment facilities, and Southern Nevada Water Authority 
greenfield 400 mgd River Mountains Water Treatment plant (WTP), the largest WTP in the nation at the time. Tony 
brings experience executing all project stages for federal, municipal and commercial projects, an inclusive leadership 
style, and is personally committed to the County’s  success.

Planning & Permitting

Abbey Mayer, AICP Abbey’s expertise in local permits will be valuable for keeping the project on schedule 
while meeting regulatory requirements. 

Abbey is currently Senior Project Manager for Jacobs specializing in climate change, resiliency, environmental, land 
use, and transportation planning. Abbey previously served as the State of Hawaii, Office of Planning Director and 
personally represented the State before the State Land Use Commission (LUC) on Special Use Permit applications 
and petitions for District Boundary Amendment. Abbey has been involved in land use planning, permitting, and 
compliance—including leading complex National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) and the State of Hawaii HRS 
Chapter 343 (HEPA) reviews—for numerous vertical and horizontal infrastructure projects across the State. This 
includes serving as the Director of Planning, Permitting, and Right of Way for the Honolulu Authority for Rapid 
Transportation (HART) and the Planning Lead for the National Park Service’s rehabilitation and expansion of the 
Kalaupapa electrical system on Molokai. 

Nancy Nishikawa, 
AICP 

Nancy will bring her thorough understanding of community involvement and 
understanding of regulatory processes at different government levels to effectively 
meet permit compliance.

Nancy is a planner with more than 30 years of experience. She has successfully completed projects in the 
environmental, land use, and transportation sectors throughout Hawaii. Over the years, Nancy has specialized in 
strategizing public involvement to develop appropriate and effective solutions for the community. 

John Padre, MBA John brings his experience planning projects for a diverse group of markets to provide 
the County with a sustainable planning approach.

John is a planner at Jacobs with more than 20 years of management and technical experience in various markets: rail 
transit, information technology, real property development, renewable energy, sustainable materials management, 
asset management, and environmental liabilities. John specializes in program and project management, executive 
planning and execution, management consulting, and operations management. 

Public Outreach

Diane Wakamatsu Diane's understanding of the Wailuku community and County's values will be valuable 
for facilitating effective and purposeful communication with the public.

Diane will serve as the bridge between the project team and the community. Born and raised in Wailuku, Diane 
understands the values of the Wailuku community and has witnessed the growth and development of the Central Maui 
region over time. Her experience having served the executive and legislative branches of Maui’s government will be 
vital to establishing purposeful communication in alignment with the County’s goals.



CBS-3206 Central Maui Regional WWRF | County of Maui 17

Design

Kandi Maestri, P.E.

Kandi's experience with various delivery methods and her ability to manage accelerated 
schedules will help to keep this project organized and on-time.

Kandi brings 20 years of successful design management and quality management on water and wastewater projects. 
Kandi recently leveraged her skill as design manager and team player to help successfully deliver the Agua Nueva 
Water reclamation Facility and Wilsonville Wastewater Treatment Plant projects. Kandi's ability to manage fast-paced, 
accelerated schedules and her collaborative approach to project coordination is essential for effectively managing 
large, multi-discipline design projects.

Carl Koester, P.E.

Carl will work closely with Jacobs' and County staff to lead timely and effective 
communication and coordination for this project.

Carl will support Tony and Kandi with project scope, schedule, and budget management. Carl led coordination 
meetings for the Lahaina Stage 1A Improvements project to ensure project issues were quickly addressed. His 
leadership helped to complete this project on-schedule for both the design and construction phases. Carl will also help 
coordinate with County staff to ensure issues and resolutions are clearly communicated.

Process

Bruce Johnson, P.E.

Bruce brings practical, innovative process design expertise to creatively and effectively 
address the opportunities of a greenfield site.

Bruce is a Technology Fellow and lead process engineer with Jacob’s People and Places Solutions group. He has 
formerly led both the wastewater technology practice and the wastewater simulation groups within Jacobs. He has a 
broad range of capabilities in industrial and municipal wastewater treatment, both domestically and internationally. 
Bruce specializes in the design and sizing of biological treatment systems, solid-liquid separation equipment, and 
waste sludge reduction. He also has extensive experience operating, troubleshooting, and designing water and 
wastewater treatment plants and equipment, holds 5 patents for technology and processes, and has authored or co-
authored more than 26 publications. Most recently, Bruce effectively troubleshooted a plant upset at the Lahaina plant 
and developed an efficient process design using a stacked channel bio-reactor. 

Bill Leaf, P.E.

Bill works closely with operators and contractors to facilitate a smooth startup and 
commissioning process and provide quality control to meet compliance with effluent 
regulations.

Bill is a principal technologist and process engineer with more than 25 years of experience. Bill works closely with 
County operators, contractors and automation control engineers to ensure process parameters are implemented to 
meet effluent compliance regulations. He was involved with the Lahaina WWRF Stage 1A Improvements project during 
the startup and commissioning phase, and supported operations during a plant upset. Bill also changed the step feed 
bioreactor at Lahaina WWRF to operate as extended aeration during seeding and startup, and determined the process 
to switch the system over to step feed. Bill collaborated with Contractors and County Operators to review equipment 
operation and perform training during startup.

Dale Gabel, P.E.

Dale brings extensive experience in facilities planning and process engineering for 
wastewater treatment plants, to help effectively steward County funds by using 
efficient energy savings approaches.

Dale is Jacobs' Wastewater Practice Lead for the western U.S. He has extensive experience providing the full suite of 
engineering services for wastewater treatment facilities and a strong background in facilities planning and process 
engineering for municipal and industrial wastewater treatment plants. He has collaborated extensively with local, 
state, and federal regulatory agencies and has participated in numerous public meetings to provide technical 
expertise. Dale is a proven program and project manager for projects ranging from $5,000 to $50M, which includes the 
evaluation, permitting, design, and construction of private and public facilities. Dale is involved with the planning and 
design of the Honouliuli expansion for a mandated consent decree. 



CBS-3206 Central Maui Regional WWRF | County of Maui18

Environmental Planning, 
Permitting, & Regulatory 
Compliance
Regulatory Compliance

Regulatory compliance is an integral aspect of facility 
planning work, since it carries risk of moderate to severe 
project schedule delays and can cause projects to be 
abandoned or entirely re-sited in certain circumstances. For 
this reason, Jacobs includes planners and environmental 
scientists on design teams from the earliest stages of a 
project to weigh in on design choices. This mitigates the risk 
of schedule and cost overruns by avoiding mandated re-
design in response to regulatory pushback.

At Jacobs, we employ in-house planning and regulatory 
compliance professionals experienced in federal, state, 
and county laws and rules related to the siting, design, and 
construction of wastewater treatment facilities. Jacobs 
works closely with clients to create a complete picture of 
decision processes and develop a comprehensive description 
of the proposed project and approvals that could affect 
the project. The identification of key players and their 
concerns will be central to this effort. Jacobs will work to 
understand who is involved in every decision throughout 
the project’s duration to avoid potential project delays. 
Regulatory processes are often delayed because key 
personnel or agencies were not identified as participants in 
the initial planning process. Jacobs has collaborated with 
Diane Wakamatsu of Go Maui, Inc. to identify and conduct 
outreach to critical participants during public-facing phases 
of our Maui projects.

NEPA and HEPA

Jacobs is experienced in providing a full range of 
environmental, engineering, planning, permitting and 
compliance services for the County of Maui.  At Jacobs, 
a successful project is defined not only by its sound 
design and engineering, but on thoughtful and skilled 
planning, permitting, and regulatory compliance. For this 
reason, we included planning, permitting, and compliance 
experts on our engineering and design teams (refer to 
the organizational chart on page 15) at the project’s 
earliest stages. 

Our team consists of state, regional, and global subject 
matter experts (SMEs) who are experienced in completing 
high-visibility environmental assessments (EAs) and 
environmental impact statements (EISs) on Maui. Our 
Honolulu-based personnel are experienced with meeting 
compliance with both the the National Environmental 
Protection Act (NEPA) and the Hawaii Environmental 
Protection Act (HEPA, or Chapter 343, Hawaii Revised 
Statutes). Together, the Jacobs team provides the range 
of critical knowledge and experience required to drive this 

project to success.

Environmental review is intricately connected with various 
other regulatory requirements, and the proposed Central 
Maui Regional WWRF’s EA/EIS will need to be coordinated 
with federal, state, and county agencies. Jacobs has 
successfully delivered EAs and EISs that simultaneously 
comply with NEPA and HEPA for the County by implementing 
integrated project planning, coordinating aggressive 
schedules, and using a proactive approach that identifies 
and focuses on resolving issues most likely to adversely 
affect the NEPA, HEPA, and/or permitting processes. 
Jacobs will serve as a guide for the County to properly meet 
compliance with regulatory requirements and achieve 
project success.

Planning & Permitting

A variety of federal, state, and local rules and regulations 
require the preparation and implementation of plans, as 
well as supporting document maintenance. Jacobs supports 
clients in a variety of ways, which may include:

 » Conducting due diligence studies associated with 
biological, archaeological and cultural resources

 » Preparing environmental planning documents including 
EAs and EISs,

 » Responding to development needs in sensitive 
environments that require extensive planning and 
mitigations, such as Habitat Conservation Plans (HCP) 
for endangered and protected species, Compensatory 
Mitigation Plans for loss of wetlands, and Memoranda 
of Agreement for adverse impacts on significant 
historic properties

 » Preparing permit applications to meet compliance with 
federal, state, and local regulations

 » Providing planning and permitting services for various 
large-scale infrastructure facilities 

 » Preparing required supporting documentation, such as 
recordkeeping, reporting, or training

 » Providing tools for managing and visualizing 
information (i.e. geographic information systems [GIS] 
and numerical modeling)

Jacobs can also provide specific expertise on all areas 
required to entitle a new WWRF, including: 

 » Conducting site investigations
 » Right-of-way acquisition assistance
 » Preparing applicable design reports
 » Preparing topographic surveys 

Obtaining and securing applicable permits and clearances 
may include but are not limited to: 

 » Coastal Zone Management Act (CZMA) compliance, 
including Federal Consistency and Special Management 
Area (SMA) Permits

 » Water Quality Certification 
 » Department of the Army Permits



CBS-3206 Central Maui Regional WWRF | County of Maui 19

 » National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System 
(NPDES) Permits

 » Endangered Species Act (ESA) compliance
 » Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act 

(NHPA) consultations and compliance
 » State District Boundary Amendments and/or State Land 

Use Commission Special Use Permits 
 » County Zone Change applications and/or 

Special Permits
 » Conducting public meetings as required
 » Providing post-design services

Past Performance

Jacobs’ recent environmental planning and regulatory 
compliance experience includes some wastewater treatment 
facilities:

 » EA for the Puu Makaala Natural Area Reserve, 
Hawaii Island, Hawaii

 » Environmental planning services, including NEPA, HEPA, 
and Section 106 of the NHPA Programmatic Agreement 
support, for the Honolulu Rail Transit Project (HART), 
Honolulu, Hawaii

 » Ala Wai Watershed Feasibility Study and EIS, 
Honolulu, Hawaii

 » Farrington Highway Improvements Environmental 
Assessment, Kapolei, Hawaii

 » EIS, planning, and regulatory compliance for the 
Kawailoa Wind Farm Project, Oahu, Hawaii

 » Waianae Wastewater Treatment Plant EA, 
Waianae, Hawaii

 » Planning, permitting, regulatory compliance (including 
EA and permitting for the adjacent force main) for 
Kamehameha Highway Wastewater Project, Oahu, Hawaii

 » Design and federal environmental compliance for Kauai 
Solid Waste Management and Transfer Station Program, 
Kauai, Hawaii

 » EAs for six exploratory wells for the Honolulu Board of 
Water Supply: Halawa Nonpotable, Kalihi IV, Punaluu III 
Addition, Wahiawa II Addition, and Whitmore Exploratory 
wells, Oahu, Hawaii

 » EA for Nuuanu Reservoir System Improvements, 
Nuuanu, Hawaii

Recent Maui planning, permitting, and regulatory 
compliance projects include:

 » Feasibility study and EA for the Mokuhinia Ecosystem 
Restoration Project, Lahaina, Hawaii

 » Strategic planning and environmental permitting for 
Hawaiian Electric and Maui Electric Co.’s “Big Wind” 
Project, Oahu and Maui, Hawaii

 » Strategic planning and permitting services for Maui 
Electric Co.

 » Central Maui Landfill Engineering Services
 » Central Maui Landfill Groundwater Monitoring Services

Climate Change, Sustainability, and Resiliency 
Planning 

Over the past 25 years, there has been an increasing 
recognition to consider the longer-term implications of 
management actions with respect to climate change, 
sustainability, and resiliency—especially in relation to 
traditional infrastructure design and engineering—to 
avoid committing future generations to unsustainable 
practices. Finding solutions to these challenges requires the 
development of strategic plans that cover long time periods 
and large spatial scales, and involve multiple stakeholders. 

Jacobs brings this expertise to the County as a global 
industry leader in climate change, sustainability, and 
resilience planning. This effort will include access to world-
class expertise during design reviews for the Central Maui 
Regional WWRF and incorporation of measures aligned with 
to help achieve State and County sustainability goals. We 
will also evaluate siting plans, flood risk assessments, green 
infrastructure and renewable energy options, and effluent 
handling and reuse options. Cost-benefit analyses and risk 
assessments will help guide decision-making for potential 
sustainability and resilience design features.

Environmental Planning and Regulatory Compliance 
during the COVID-19 Pandemic

Today, we are faced with unexpected circumstances and 
significant new uncertainties that may include: 

 » Emergency operations and teleworking
 » Slower economic activity and business functions
 » Pressure from customers and funders to be more 

sensitive to costs and affordability
 » Need to optimize and fund capital projects amid 

changing priorities
 » Staffing challenges, including staff illnesses and making 

short- and long-term personnel decisions
 » Reduced customer demand for discrete services forced 

shutdowns of offices and facilities
 » New operational efficiency, performance, and service 

delivery imperatives
 » Supply chain disruptions

Fortunately, proven approaches and tools can help to 
minimize the new risks and uncertainties that have surfaced 
during this pandemic.

The Jacobs Honolulu team has adapted project procedures 
to make sure design, engineering, planning, permitting, 
and regulatory compliance services remain on-time and 
on-budget during the pandemic. Supported by Jacobs’ 
Strategic Consulting division, we offer the County project- 
and program-level services to successfully adapt to the “new 
normal.” We will draw upon best practices to ensure that 
program and project goals can be met, while maintaining 
the highest practicable safety levels.



CBS-3206 Central Maui Regional WWRF | County of Maui20

Lahaina WWRF Stage 1A 
Improvements
County of Maui, Lahaina, Hawaii

Client Reference

Eric Nakagawa, 808.270.7422

Performance Highlights

 » Design plans, specifications, and cost estimate for new 
secondary treatment facilities for operational reliability

 » Modifications to existing secondary treatment facilities

Fee: $3M (design fee)

Areas this Project Addresses

 » Secondary treatment with biological nutrient removal
 » Modifications to existing tankage
 » Sludge handling improvements

Scope 

The County of Maui owns and operates the Lahaina WWRF 
This Facility serves the population of West Maui from 
Puamana to Kapalua and it is currently rated at 9.0 million 
gallons per day (mgd) average daily flow and consists of 
preliminary, secondary, tertiary treatment, UV disinfection, 
and solids processing facilities. Maintaining 9.0 mgd 
reliability has become an issue since the original portion 
of the plant, built in the 1970’s, has become obsolete and 
can no longer be used as backup for the current operating 
portion of the plant, built in the 1980’s and 1990’s.

Based on recommendations from the Lahaina WWRF 
Process Study Update, Steady State Process Modeling and 
Alternatives Evaluation (Process Study Update) (Jacobs, 
November 2015), the Lahaina WWRF will be restoring 
reliable secondary treatment capacity of the WWRF to 
9.0 mgd ADF, also known as the “Stage 1A Upgrade.” The 
secondary treatment facilities were configured and sized to 

meet treatment criteria using Jacobs wastewater treatment 
simulation model, Pro-2D2™.

The design concept for the new bioreactor is based on a 
three-pass configuration, where any one pass can be taken 
out of service for maintenance. Preliminary treatment 
effluent (PTE) can be introduced into either or both of the 
first two passes, also known as step feed. Return activated 
sludge (RAS) is introduced at the first pass. Within the 
first two passes is an anoxic zone (no air diffusers; nitrate 
introduced via mixed liquor return from the end of the pass; 
mixers required to keep sludge in suspension) and aerobic 
zones (with fine-bubble diffusers, no mixing required). In the 
final pass the first zone is a swing zone (diffusers and mixers 
provided) followed by aerobic zones. Aerobic zones in the 
final pass may be operated under low (not zero) dissolved 
oxygen (DO) conditions, which may require mixers due to the 
reduced air flow.

Provided the design for a new Secondary Clarifier 6—a 75-
foot diameter clarifier with 20-foot side water depth. The 
secondary clarifier mechanism is a spiral type to match the 
existing clarifiers. Chlorine solution prevents algae growth 
on the weirs/launders similar to the existing clarifiers 
instead of using launder covers. A RAS pump station integral 
with the exterior wall of the new clarifier houses submersible 
pumps in a wet well to serve the new clarifier.

The Process Study Update also recommended related 
improvements such as a new preliminary treatment effluent 
(PTE) flow splitter box, a new blower and electrical building, 
and modifications to the existing FAB, CAB, secondary 
clarifiers, and RAS/WAS pump station. Jacobs prepared 
plans and specifications for new plant improvements and 
provided engineering support to the County of Maui during 
construction. Jacobs staff also worked with the Contractor 
to perform the operational control system and troubleshoot 
construction issues, such as challenges with aeration blower 
duplex operation. Construction commenced in March 2017 
and will be completed in September 2020.

Spokane County Regional Water 
Reclamation Facility Design-Build-
Operate (DBO) Project
Spokane County Division of 
Utilities,Washington

Client Reference

Ben Brattebo, Water Reclamation Engineer, 509.477.7521

Key Project Elements

 » Innovative, state-of-the-art membrane bioreactor 
(MBR) and nutrient removal achieve lowest phosphorus 

effluent levels in North America at 50 ppb to meet Class 
A reclaimed water requirements

 » Operations and maintenance responsibility for 20 years 
with unattended operations capability

 » First full-scale post aerobic digester in North America for 
nitrogen load and volatile suspended solids reductions

 » Excellent safety performance, with over 583,000 hours 
performed while recording a Total Recordable Rate of 
183 and Days Away Restricted Time of 000 points, both 
well below the industry average

To meet future population growth, eliminate septic tank 
service, and reduce phosphorous discharge to the Spokane 
River, the Spokane County Board of Commissioners awarded 



CBS-3206 Central Maui Regional WWRF | County of Maui 21

Jacobs a $132 million DBO contract for a new greenfield 8 
mgd (30 ML/d) water reclamation facility that was delivered 
early and under budget.

Use Of MBR And Nutrient Removal To Achieve 
Stringent Nutrient Limits

The state-of-the-art MBR and nutrient removal systems 
achieve some of the lowest phosphorus effluent levels in 
North America, at 50 ppb and 0.25 mg/L ammonia. The 
other notable aspect of the facility is the use of post-aerobic 
digestion (aerobic digestion after anaerobic) to greatly 
reduce nitrogen loads on the facility and improve volatile 
suspended solids (VSS) destruction in the biosolids train.

Beginning in January 2009, Jacobs' scope of work 
for the Spokane County Regional Water Reclamation 
Facility (SCRWRF) encompassed the design, permitting, 
construction, commissioning, and long‐term operations of 
the new treatment facility. Facilities constructed on the 20 
acre (8 hectare) site include:

 » Headworks facility to screen influent, remove grit, and 
receive septage deliveries

 » Primary clarifiers featuring a chemically-enhanced 
treatment process with step-feed membrane bioreactor 
technology to produce Class A effluent within the 
specified phosphorus limits

 » Anaerobic/aerobic digestion and dewatering facilities 
to produce Class B biosolids for beneficial land 
application reuse

 » Digester gas cogeneration facilities to generate power 
and recover heat for use in treatment processes

 » LEED™ Silver‐certified Water Resource 
Center, Treatment Operations Facility and 
Maintenance Buildings

Construction was completed in November 2011, 7 months 
ahead of schedule and nearly $1 million under budget, at 
which point Jacobs began a 20‐year facility operation and 
maintenance period that includes administration of the 
County’s Industrial Pretreatment Program.

Sustainable Design Recovers Energy

The plant’s sustainable design allows energy recovered 
through digester gas production, process heating, and 
cogeneration systems to produce electricity to help run 
the facility. Using this renewable energy will help the 
environment and reduce electrical costs for the County, 
and were designed to meet LEED™ Silver criteria. Jacobs 
self-performed all design disciplines including mechanical, 
electrical, structural, civil, instrumentation and controls 
(I&C), HVAC, architectural, geotechnical, and process. We 
also led permitting, construction management, yard piping, 
equipment installation, process mechanical, concrete/
civil work, SCADA and I&C installation, and long term O&M 
operations and planning. Sustainable elements included:

 » Irrigation systems use only recycled wastewater
 » Potable water use has been reduced by 45 percent with 

dual-flush water closet, low-flow urinals and ultra-low 
flow lavatories

 » HVAC system selection has minimized/eliminated 
emissions that contribute to ozone depletion or global 
warming

 » 9838 percent of onsite generated construction waste 
has been diverted from a landfill

 » 2328 percent of all building materials were 
manufactured with recycled materials

The plant serves as a catalyst to revitalize the area and be 
a good neighbor to existing developments. An advanced 
SCADA system that can allow unattended operations 
was implemented and integrated with maintenance 
management and operations optimization programs to 
minimize operation and maintenance costs. 

Jacobs’ staff used a proactive and aggressive permitting 
approach, and received permits ahead of schedule. This 
was achieved due to our long history of collaboration with 
regulatory agencies, including the Department of Ecology, 
EPA, Spokane Regional Clean Air Agency, City of Spokane, 
and the Washington Department of Transportation.

Innovative facility design protects Spokane River while allowing 
population growth

PAD provides additional solids reduction



CBS-3206 Central Maui Regional WWRF | County of Maui22

Clovis Sewage Treatment Water 
Reclamation Facility with 
Membrane Bioreactors
City of Clovis, California

Client Reference

Steve White, City Engineer, 559.324.2355

Key Project Elements

 » 28 mgd (106 ML/d), expandable to 8 mgd (30 ML/d)
 » Reclaimed water for landscape and 

agricultural irrigation
 » 3-D design and a compact footprint
 » Covered facility with odor control

The Clovis Sewage Treatment Water Reclamation Facility 
involved design, construction, and 10 years of operation 
and maintenance of a new facility capable of 2.8 mgd 
(10.6 ML/d) average daily flow (expandable to 8.4 mgd [30 
ML/d]). Plant features include a headworks, a bioreactor 
basin, a membrane equipment building, an administration 
building, a 3 MG (11 ML) storage tank, street utilities in an 
existing major traffic artery, and a new city street. Sewage 
is pumped to the plant from the Fresno/Clovis Regional 
Trunk Line, allowing the plant to operate at near capacity at 
all times. Water from the process is used for residential and 
commercial irrigation. 

The integrated DBO delivery contract provides seamless 
delivery, resulting in an integrated mindset and single point 
of contact and responsibility. Through this delivery method, 
Jacobs provided facilities planning, engineering, design, 
construction, obtaining governmental approvals, permitting 
acceptance testing, startup, O&M, and warranty for this 
project. Jacobs is providing operation and maintenance 
services for the facility, chemicals, capital maintenance 
repair and replacement, membrane maintenance and 
replacement, residual solids disposal, and guaranteed 
maximum energy usage.

Innovations Minimize Footprint And 
Maximize Sustainability

Jacobs used state-of-the-art treatment technologies 
with the goal of a sustainable design while minimizing 
the facilities environmental footprint. The selected 
treatment includes membrane bioreactors (MBRs), low-
energy UV technology for minimal power consumption, 
and Siemen’s Cannibal process. The MBR system delivers 
the highest quality water and provide exceptional 
effluent quality; create the least environmental impact 
by use of a small footprint; significantly reduce costs; 
offer simplified expansion for future needs; and present 
improved aesthetics. In addition to MBR, Siemen’s Cannibal 

solids reduction process was 
incorporated into the new ST/
WRF. The Cannibal process 
greatly reduces solids production 
with consequent capital and 
operating cost savings. It 
significantly reduces biosolids 
production, which eliminate the 
need for expensive dewatering 
and digestion equipment and 
associated costs. Additionally, 
these technologies make the 
facility highly automated 
requiring fewer staff to 
operate than conventional 
treatment facilities.

The facility was designed to 
blend in with the local residential 
and business community. 
Architectural features include prairie-style architecture, 
water features, and extensive landscaping and screening to 
minimize visual impact. The facility also includes extensive 
odor control, including reuse of odorous air within the 
treatment process and biofilters.

The project has been honored with numerous industry 
awards, including:

 » 2008 Environmental Business Journal Wastewater 
Project Merit Award

 » 2009 American Academy of Environmental Engineers 
Design Honor Award for Excellence

 » Finalist, Global Water Intelligence’s 2009 Water Reuse 
Project of the Year

 » 2009 Award of Merit from the WateReuse Association
 » 2009 Design‐Build Institute of America Excellence 

Award for Projects over $15 Million

Compact design features allow room for future growth



CBS-3206 Central Maui Regional WWRF | County of Maui 23

Design-Build Construction of The 
Northern Treatment Plant
Metro Wastewater Reclamation District, 
Denver, Colorado

Key Project Elements

 » Sludge fermentation for low-cost supplemental 
carbon supply

 » Step-feed 5-stage Bardenpho biological process, 
coupled with chemical addition for nutrient removal

 » Post-aerobic digestion for additional nitrogen removal 
and solids destruction

 » Lamella plate settler and granular media filtration 

In July 2011, the Metro Wastewater Reclamation District 
(District) contracted with Jacobs to serve as the design‐
builder for the design, construction, and startup of the 
Northern Treatment Plant (NTP), a new regional wastewater 
treatment facility to serve the northern Denver metropolitan 
area. The District selected design‐build (DB) delivery to 
shorten the project schedule, streamline risk allocation, and 
establish project costs early to ensure cost certainty.

Jacobs holds 100 percent responsibility for delivery of the 
NTP project with support from a construction subcontractor 
and several engineering subconsultants, each of whom 
is located within 60 minutes of the project site so that all 
project decisions are made locally in the District’s best 
interests.

A key component in the District’s selection of DB delivery 
was the anticipated changes to the Colorado Department of 
Public Health and Environment statewide nutrient criteria 
for total inorganic nitrogen (TIN) and total phosphorus (TP). 
The NTP’s selected delivery method and treatment process 
allows flexibility for the NTP to meet these requirements.

In 2016, the NTP facility was one of the most advanced 
treatment facilities in the Western U.S. and met very 
stringent effluent limits established to protect the water 
quality of the South Platte River. The $255 million facility 
uses biological nutrient removal and tertiary treatment, 
including granular media filtration to meet effluent limits 
of 10 mg/L for total nitrogen, and 0.1 mg/L for total 
phosphorus.

Jacobs’ scope of work was completed in two phases:

Phase 1

 » Engineering and design development for liquids and 
solids treatment processes, site and support facilities, 
and related infrastructure

 » Permitting support including coordination of applicable 
regulatory permitting activities with the District, 
documentation, and meeting attendance

 » Cost model development for a Guaranteed Maximum 
Price contract

 » $255 million progressive, DB delivery of 24 mgd 
(91 ML/d) advanced wastewater treatment facility 
expandable to buildout capacity of 60 mgd (227 ML/d)

 » Treatment process addressed anticipated increases 
to Colorado’s nitrogen and phosphorus effluent 
discharge standard 

 » Facility operational by 2016 with discharge to the South 
Platte River

 » Scope of work included engineering, permitting, 
cost model development, construction, startup 
and commissioning

 » Jacobs collaborated with the District to create a 
customized secondary treatment process

 » The plant includes one of the first post‐aerobic 
digesters in North America

Phase 2

 » Final design, construction, and construction‐related 
activities for the NTP Facilities, including self-
performance and management of subcontractors

 » Secure all necessary and applicable construction‐
related permits

 » Startup and commissioning of NTP facilities

Safety performance was excellent, with over 226,000 hours 
worked without a single injury. 

The Northern Treatment Plant is one of the most advanced 
wastewater treatment facilities in the western United States.



CBS-3206 Central Maui Regional WWRF | County of Maui24

Agua Nueva Water 
Reclamation Facility
Pima County Regional Wastewater 
Reclamation District, Tucson, Arizona

Key Project Elements

 » Innovative treatment process using dissolved air 
flotation clarification replacing primary clarifiers and 
separate grit chamber

 » 5‐stage Bardenpho, enhanced with step‐feed and 
dissolved oxygen control capabilities, followed by deep 
tank secondary clarification

 » Disinfection includes preformed chlroamination to 
reduce trihalomethane formation

 » Contract includes Jacobs operations for 20 (15+5) years

The Lower Santa Cruz River creates Pima County, Arizona’s 
principal wetland habitat, supporting important bird 
and wildlife species and providing numerous community 
benefits, ranging from recreation to the recharge of local 
groundwater aquifers. Concerned that effluent discharged 
into the river could affect local groundwater supplies, 
in 2006 state regulators ruled that Pima County meet 
stringent nutrient discharge requirements by January 
1, 2015. To realize the most sustainable, community-
focused solutions, the Pima County Regional Wastewater 
Reclamation Department (RWRD) embarked on the largest 
capital program in its history—the $720 million Regional 
Optimization Plan (ROMP). In December 2010, Jacobs was 
selected to design, build, and operate (DBO) ROMP’s crown 
jewel: the $172 million Agua Nueva Water Reclamation 
Facility (WRF).

The new 32 mgd (121 ML/d) Agua Nueva WRF produces 
quality effluent, replacing the old Roger Road Wastewater 
Treatment Plant with one of the world’s most advanced 
WRFs. Its treatment process includes new headworks, 
influent pumping, and a combined flocculation/grit 
removal system, followed by dissolved air flotation (DAF) 
clarification for primary treatment and sludge thickening; 
5-Stage Bardenpho activated sludge secondary treatment 
with step-feed aeration; tertiary filtration; and chloramine-
based disinfection. Solids are transferred to RWRD’s Tres 
Rios WRF for treatment, dewatering, and disposal. The plant 
is designed for expansion to an ultimate capacity of 48 mgd 
(182 ML/d).

Other ROMP projects include a new central laboratory 
complex; biosolids and biogas program; decommissioning 

of the Roger Road Wastewater Treatment Plant; SCADA 
upgrades; a 72 inch (183 centimeter) influent pipeline; and 
related capital improvements.

Technical Innovation, Exceptional Performance, And 
Low Lifecycle Cost 

Jacobs' single-entity DBO approach delivered innovation at 
every turn, completing the project 8 months early, 1 year 
ahead of the compliance schedule, $77 million below the 
design-build budget, and $2 million below the final contract 
value. Using a complete lifecycle approach delivered 
process control and efficiency strategies that managed 
costs, mitigated energy and resource use, and extended the 
useful life of key assets—significantly reducing the carbon 
footprint and saving $2 million in annual operating costs. 
The team also provided record safety performance: the 
150+ workforce delivered over 930,000 hours with no lost 
time injuries and a 1.09 Total Recordable Incidence Rate. Key 
project innovations include: 

 » Unlike other DAF wastewater systems, Agua Nueva uses 
DAF for primary clarification at the beginning of the 
liquids train – world’s first such large-scale application 
significantly reduced costs

 » For nutrient removal, Pima County required that 
Agua Nueva use a 5-stage Bardenpho process Jacobs 
enhanced this process with step feed and simultaneous 
nitrification and denitrification

 » Agua Nueva’s first-of-its-kind advanced dynamic model 
combined control system, aeration system, hydraulic 
profile, and wastewater process models into a single 
simulation, which was used to check field installations, 
control system performance during startup 
and operation 

 » The biological technology odor control solution requires 
no chemicals and little-to-no operational attention

“….[Jacobs'] performance was excellent on all fronts, from their integrated delivery approach, technical quality, 
and innovation, to their safety performance and efficiency during construction and startup…. The project has 
gone exceptionally well from the client perspective and has been an enjoyable experience for all involved. We 
are more than satisfied customers.”

Kenny Shelor, Pima County’s Agua Nueva Project Manager

Aerial view of Agua Nueva Water Reclamation Facility



CBS-3206 Central Maui Regional WWRF | County of Maui 25

 » To enhance site aesthetics, the LEED Silver-certified 
administration and maintenance building was coupled 
with building forms, roofing materials, and color/
texture palettes that mirror the enduring beauty of the 
Sonoran Desert

 » The advanced SCADA system integrates all treatment 
components into an efficient, easy-to-operate facility, 
enhancing the complex systems resulting in reliable and 
consistent performance 

Unique, Single Entity DBO Integrates All 
Project Facets

Jacobs' overriding objective was to bring RWRD an optimized 
lifecycle solution that balanced the responsibilities of each 
project function—design, construction, and operations—at 
best value to ratepayers. To achieve this, we created a single-
entity DBO team dedicated to technical innovation across 
each major discipline. This provided a design process built 
around input from construction and operations experts to 
address constructability and operability at all times. It also 
engaged engineers and designers during construction and 
startup to avoid process interruptions and provide a smooth 
transition to long-term O&M. 

As the single-entity designer, builder, and operator, Jacobs 
led the project’s design and construction activities in close 
partnership with RWRD staff. The firm will operate the plant 
for 20 (15+5) years, with RWRD operators filling all available 
operations roles.

Project controls, advanced BIM and visualization models, 
and effective communication facilitated collaboration 
and timely issue resolution during start-up. Our scope 
management, trend system, and risk management ensured 
risks were successfully tracked and mitigated, delivering 
a benchmark facility with the highest levels of quality 
and safety.

Social, Economic, And Sustainable Development 

Agua Nueva’s highly compact treatment process produces 
Class A+ reclaimed water quality with the highest degree 
of integration, efficiency, flexibility, and reliability, while 
dramatically reducing energy consumption, chemical usage, 
and capital and O&M lifecycle costs. 

The advanced odor control system resolves nuisance 
odors that plagued area residents for decades, and 
creative architecture and low-thirst landscaping create an 
attractive aesthetic that saves energy and water, reduces 
waste, and increases the use of recovered materials. Agua 
Nueva dramatically improves the county’s reclaimed water 
quality for recharge and reuse—ensuring the region has 
enough water to satisfy service demands to the year 2030, 
decreasing water diversions from sensitive habitats, and 
providing wetlands benefits. It’s also critical to restoring 
the Santa Cruz River, with once-destroyed flora and fauna 
already returning to the river. 

The substantial cost savings avoided rate shock, and Jacobs 
hired RWRD operators to fill all available operator positions, 
with guaranteed equal or better salary and benefits. We also 
more than doubled local small business participation goals, 
volunteered in the community, and have sponsored many 
learning opportunities at the new WRF.

As a result of these, the project has received five 
industry awards accounting for its innovation and 
exceptional delivery: 

 » Winner, 2014 AAEES Grand Prize in Design
 » Winner, 2014 DBIA Merit Award 
 » Winner, 2014 Arizona Water Wastewater Treatment 

Project of the Year 
 » Winner, 2013 Water & Wastes Digest Top Water and 

Wastewater Project
 » Winner, 2013 Environmental Business Journal Water/

Wastewater Project Merit Award 

Enhanced secondary treatment

Disk tertiary filtration system

The project was lauded in Engineering News-Record’s 
feature story: “Nitrogen Diet, Arizona’s Pima County uses 
innovative technologies and delivery methods to remove 
nitrogen from its wastewater” (July 30, 2012) 



CBS-3206 Central Maui Regional WWRF | County of Maui26

Changi Water Reclamation Plant – 
Phase II 
Singapore PUB, Singapore

Key Project Elements

 » New headworks facility with robust screenings, grit and 
grease removal, and flexibility to upgrade to A-stage 
primary treatment

 » New liquids module treatment including 
membrane bioreactor

 » Design incorporates of ceramic and 
polymeric membranes

 » Future flexibility to implement mainstream anammox 
granule capture and retentio

 » New wet weather facility using ballasted settlement

Jacobs is providing professional engineering services to 
Singapore’s Public Utilities Board (PUB) and responsible 
for the study, design and tender, contract administration 
and supervision of construction and commissioning of the 
facilities. Upon completion of Phase II Expansion work, the 
water reclamation facilities will be able to accommodate 
projected used water flows and loads up to year 2030. 

The Changi Water Reclamation Plant (CWRP) – Phase II 
Expansion will increase the treatment capacity by 53 mgd 
(200 ML/d) through the addition of Train 5. Peak flows will 
be treated in a separate wet weather facility (WWF).

At CWRP, used water is currently treated in two liquids 
modules. The liquid treatment uses a biological treatment 
process to treat incoming used water for use as NEWater 
feedstock. There are four treatment trains, each with an 
average capacity of 52,830,000 gallons per day (200,000 
m3/d). Sludge is sent to the solids facility for further 
treatment prior to disposal.

The Phase II expansion will add Train 5 to the liquids 
treatment facilities. A key advancement will be the use of 
a membrane bioreactor (MBR) system providing a higher 
quality NEWater feedstock, eliminating the need for the 

initial microfiltration stage, which has been necessary in all 
the NEWater plants built to date.

The MBR system comprises 11 membrane trains. Polymeric 
and ceramic membrane trains will be installed to give 
flexibility and valuable operating experience. All associated 
civil works, mechanical, electrical, instrumentation, controls 
and automation systems are included within Jacobs' scope.

Sludge generated will be treated by the existing solids 
processing facility. The scope of Phase II expansion also 
includes modification works to the existing solids facility, 
enhancing the reliability of the existing system in treating 
the increased sludge production associated with the increase 
in flow. The architectural scheme uses open structures 
makes use of natural ventilation and lighting, resulting in a 
safer and more pleasant operator environment.

Computer generated images of plant layout and 
interior

Honouliuli WWTP Secondary 
Upgrades
City and County of Honolulu, Hawaii

Project Background

Jacobs is teamed with a local engineering firm to provide 
planning, design and construction support for the $450 
million upgrade to the Honouliuli WWTP to meet the 
requirements of a USEPA-mandated consent decree  
and increase the plant capacity to 40 mgd. In addition, 
the City and County of Honolulu (CCH) is converting the 



CBS-3206 Central Maui Regional WWRF | County of Maui 27

treatment plant into a regional biosolids processing and 
drying facility to support six additional treatment facilities 
and produce a Class A biosolid product for use as a fertilizer 
on golf courses, public parks, and agriculture.

Th e design of treatment systems are focused on balancing 
energy demand and energy produced to approach a net 
energy neutrality. Key design considerations for the liquid 
treatment processes are: 

 » Conversion of the existing trickling filter/solids contact 
biological treatment process to an activated sludge 
system that can be converted to a biological nutrient 
removal (BNR) system in the future when nutrient 
removal requirements are implemented

 » A-stage treatment to divert carbon from the liquid to 
solids streams

 » Step-feed to manage wet weather fl ows
 » Ammonia based aeration control (ABAC) to reduce 

aeration requirements
 » Advanced energy-saving aeration systems  

The solids treatment systems are critical in approaching 
energy neutrality with the goal to both minimize biosolids 
production and maximum biogas production. Key design 
elements include:

 » Incorporating the thermal hydrolysis process (THP) 
prior to digestion to increase volatile solids destruction, 
increase digester gas production, and increase 
dewatered solids concentrations

 » Enhancing the existing anaerobic digestion process

 » A cake receiving and storage facility for trucked-in 
dewatered cake from other treatment plants

 » New dewatering and pre-THP dewatering facilities
 » Low-temperature belt dryer facility to produce 

exceptional Class A biosolids product
 » FOG waste receiving and management facility
 » Digester gas treatment and storage facility
 » Combined heat and power (CHP) facility

Extensive process modeling demonstrated that the THP 
provides additional digestion and biogas that can be used for 
CHP energy recovery. Also, the THP produces biosolids with 
a significantly higher solids content in the dewatered cake 
fed to the dryers, thus enabling the dryers to be downsized 
and require less energy. Waste heat from the CHP system 
will be the primary heat source for the low-temperature belt 
dryer with natural gas as a backup. Excess biogas or natural 
gas will be used to supply the steam generation needs of the 
THP process. Energy mass balance calculations confirmed 
that the planned treatment systems will significantly reduce 
energy demands approaching net energy neutrality.

A key design consideration was the production of a dried 
biosolid product that could be used on public lands,  
such as golf courses and parks. The full spectrum of 
biosolids dryers were evaluated including rotary drum, 
paddle, disc, fluidized bed and belt dryers. A survey of golf 
course managers on the island determined that pellets 
produced by drum and some belt dryers with screens, 
crushers and back-mixing were the most desirable. Low-
temperature belt dryers with back-mixing were selected 
for  implementation.

North Las Vegas Water 
Reclamation Facility
City of North Las Vegas Utilities 
Department, Nevada

Key Project Elements

 » 30 mgd (114 ML/d) membrane bioreactor expandable 
to 50 mgd (190 ML/d)

 » Design of MBR facility, pre-construction and 
construction services

 » Provided a plant flow recycle line for startup and plant 
upsets, and producing reuse water for golf course 
irrigation

 » 3D design including small piping and electrical features
 » Jacobs' identified 15 to 20 percent in capital 

cost savings

Jacobs designed treatment processes for a new 30 mgd 
Water Reclamation Facility (WRF) using membrane 
bioreactor (MBR) technology for the City of North Las 
Vegas Utilities Department. The system provides high 
level of nutrient removal for dual purpose effluent 

reclamation. Under a broad Total Maximum Day Loads 
(TMDL) agreement, phosphorus, ammonia nitrogen and 
total nitrogen removal limits of <0.15 mg/L, <0.5 mg/L and 
10 mg/L are met through enhanced biological phosphorus 
removal (EBPR) combined with chemical polishing. 

CNLV Constructors II, a joint venture between Jacobs and 
New‐Com Construction, was selected in 2008 to provide 
construction manager at‐risk services for a new 25 mgd 
(95 ML/d), $257‐million MBR water reclamation facility to 
produce high quality effluent water. The biofilter technology 
uses an impregnated media with natural microbes to absorb 

Integrated MBR facility design saves site space, and 
provides high level of process automation



CBS-3206 Central Maui Regional WWRF | County of Maui28

“Construction of the facility provided some stability in our struggling economy,” said North Las Vegas Mayor 
Shari Buck. “It created 500 jobs locally and generated business that reverberated across the country by the 
type of supplies and technology it took to build this a state‐of‐the‐art facility.”

odors and biologically break down odors to carbon dioxide 
and water.

The treatment facility features screening and grit removal 
followed by the MBR treatment process with chorine 
disinfection and solids processing for disposal to landfill. 
Constructed facilities included an influent pump station, grit 
and screening facility, bioreactor and membrane equipment 
gallery, UV disinfection building, biosolids handling center, 
and administration and maintenance buildings.

Value Engineering And Contructibility Reviews Save 
Capital Costs

Jacobs' preconstruction services included value engineering 
and constructibility reviews of the facility design documents. 
We identified numerous opportunities to save capital costs, 
including relocating the project site, rearranging facility 
layouts, optimizing treatment processes for long‐term 
operations, and realigning access roads to provide simplified 
entry and exit for deliveries and maintenance vehicles.

In addition to providing the value engineering and 
constructibility services as part of preconstruction, Jacobs' 
construction personnel worked with the City and their design 
team to identify and prepare applications for all necessary 
regulatory approvals and government permits needed to 
commence construction.

Construction began in November 2008, with substantial 
completion of the $257 million plant in May 2011, reaching 
the following milestones:

 » Over 575,000 hours without a lost time incident, with 
more than 1,100 safety orientations performed The 
project finished with a 110 Total Recordable Rate 80 
percent below industry average

 » Over 800 people were put to work providing materials 
and equipment for this landmark project—the project 
provided the local economy a boost by creating more 
than 500 jobs in Las Vegas alone

 » Facilities included an influent pump station, grit and 
screening facility, MBR equipment gallery, ultraviolet 
disinfection building, biosolids handling center, 
administration and maintenance buildings

 » The initial phase of the project provided 25 mgd of 
capacity to meet discharge and reuse standards, with 
future expansion capacity up to 50 mgd

 » First major wastewater project performed under new 
State of Nevada legislation authorizing alternative 
project delivery for public sector projects

 » Completed on schedule and under budget by $8 million

As a direct result of Jacobs' value engineering and 
constructibility reviews, project costs were reduced by up 
to 10 percent from original project estimates. The project 
was delivered under a guaranteed maximum price contract 
which contained provisions for shared savings to be split 
equally between CNLV and the City.

MBR Reduces Environmental Footprint

The treatment plant design concept focused on reducing 
the environmental footprint by using MBR technology and 
compact solids processing facilities, and using biological 
instead of chemical processes for nitrogen and phosphorous 
removal. The integrated design combined 3-D design with 
an equipment and instrumentation database, allowing for 
continuous engagement of client staff to review design work 
products and remain engaged throughout the design.

Jacobs also identified numerous opportunities to save 
between 15 and 20 percent in capital costs. The project 
site was relocated, facility layouts were rearranged, 
and treatment processes were optimized for long-term 
operations saving the client costs in the long term. Jacobs 
also realigned access roads to provide simplified entry and 
exit for deliveries and maintenance vehicles.

Southwest Water 
Reclamation Facility
City of Henderson, Nevada

Key Project Elements

 » Completed the facility planning, pre‐ design, and final 
design for an 8‐mgd ADF with potential expansion to 
16‐mgd ADF reuse facility, using MBR technology

 » Performed business case evaluation
 » Designed for small footprint

 » Provided operational flexibility
 » Oversaw the constrained sequence of work during the 

SCADA Master Plan implementation, which is extensive 
because all the sites are active facilities that must 
remain operational during the cutover phases

Project Description

The Southwest Water Reclamation Facility (WRF) is a facility 
designed to remove wastewater from the collection system 
and supply water into the reclaimed water distribution 
system. This facility relieves several shortcomings within 



CBS-3206 Central Maui Regional WWRF | County of Maui 29

the existing infrastructure serving the western portion of 
the city and provides a supply for the added reclaimed 
demands as the West Henderson area becomes developed. 
By constructing this satellite reclaimed water treatment 
facility, the City reduced loading on the collection system 
and provided a facility to satisfy reclaimed water demand. 

Jacobs led the planning and design process, which included 
evaluating wastewater flow contribution estimates, 
treatment system alternatives, and projected reclaimed 
water demand. The process evaluation covered options for 
Southwest WRF connections to the existing and proposed 
reclaimed distribution systems, options for treated 
effluent disposal, and the impact on the Southwest WRF’s 
contributed sewage solids on the existing sewer interceptors 
and WRF. 

A decision support process was used to determine the 
preferred treatment alternative for the Southwest WRF. 
The treatment alternative that was selected for the 
Southwest MBR. 

Jacobs also provided program management, design and 
development of bid documents, application software 
development, procurement management, and construction 
management services to implement the City’s SCADA 
System Master Plan. The 6‐year program includes radio 
design for 45 facilities, including potable water and reuse 
water pumping stations, sewer lift stations, the water 
treatment plant, and two water reclamation facilities. 

Results/Successes

The WRF incorporates an MBR treatment process, which has 
resulted in several benefits to the City:

 » Cost efficiencies achieved with few unit processes 
required (no secondary clarifiers or tertiary filters)

 » Abandonment or conversion of tankage in Phase 2 
not required

 » The MBR system is well‐suited for automation and 
remote superintendence; automation allows for 
unattended operations at night

Gippsland Water Factory
Gippsland Water, Victoria, Australia

Key Project Elements

 » Two greenfield MBR facilities (domestic and industrial) 
with reverse osmosis for water reuse from domestic 
system, and anaerobic pretreatment for industrial waste 
and sludge

 » Final effluent to meet Total Nitrogen limit of 3 mg/L
 » Anaerobic pretreatment for industrial 

wastewater component
 » Victoria State Government Health Approval for indirect 

potable reuse
 » Facilities operated by Jacobs' Operations Management 

Services for the first 2 years (2010-2012)

As part of an alliance, Jacobs was awarded a contract to 
design, build, commission, and operate (for an initial 2 year 
period), a wastewater treatment and recycling facility for 
Gippsland Water in Victoria’s Central Gippsland region. The 
project treats industrial and municipal effluent disposal in 
the Latrobe Valley region and includes:

 » A new 92 mgd (35 ML/d) membrane bioreactor 
(MBR) wastewater treatment plant to treat effluent 
from Australian Paper and other industries, as well 
as municipal effluent from Traralgon, Churchill and 
Rosedale

 » A 21 mgd (8 ML/d) reverse osmosis (RO) system to 
provide high quality reclaimed water for use within 
Australian Paper’s Maryvale plant

 » 56 miles (90 kilometers) of transfer pipelines and 
associated pumping stations

 » An upgrade of the Dutson Downs wastewater treatment 
facility to permit reuse of effluent from Sale and Fulham

 » An interpretive centre to educate the community on 
water cycle management issues

 » Co‐generation and hydro power facilities to reduce 
the greenhouse gas impact of treatment energy 
consumption

The new treatment facility ensures that remaining unsold 
wastewater is of high quality and odor free, eliminating 
existing previous odor issues. 

The facility won three 2011 Banksia Environmental Awards, 
including the prestigious overall Origin Gold Banksia Award. 
The Gippsland Water Factory also won in the Water category, 
and its Vortex Centre and associated ‘Water Wonders’ 
education program won in the Education category. The 
facility also won the IWA 2012 International Reuse Project of 
the Year.

Aerial view of Gippsland Water Factory



CBS-3206 Central Maui Regional WWRF | County of Maui30

Brightwater Treatment Facility
King County, Washington

Key Project Elements

 » 36 mgd (136 ML/d) membrane bioreactor advanced 
wastewater treatment and reclamation facility Facility 
uses split-flow treatment with chemically enhanced 
primary clarification process for peak wet weather flow 
and membrane bioreactor process for dry weather flow 
to reduce plant footprint compared to conventional 
secondary treatment

 » Effluent reuse (Class A reclaimed water) source 
generated at the facility

 » 3D modeling software used during design to provide 
detailed, graphical images of process facilities

 » Community-friendly, totally-enclosed process 
facilities were implemented with multiple-stage odor 
control systems

 » Innovative energy-saving modifications reduced 
lifecycle costs

 » LEED Platinum center designed and accredited

Four Phase Process Delivered Using  
Design-Build Approach

Brightwater is the hub of a new a $1.85 billion regional 
wastewater system that includes an offsite influent pump 
station, 12 miles (19.3 kilometers) of large diameter tunnels 
and conveyance pipelines, a marine outfall into Puget Sound, 
and a reclaimed water distribution network. The 120 acre 
(48.6 hectare) Brightwater Treatment Plant site, reclaimed 
from automobile wrecking yards and other uses, has been 
transformed into a park-like setting, with streams, wetlands, 
trails, overlook structures, and an environmental education/ 
community facility (the Brightwater Center).

The four-phase Brightwater project included performing 
studies and public outreach assistance for siting the new 
plant; selecting the plant site and preparing an Environmental 
Impact Statement; designing the treatment plant; and 
providing comprehensive engineering services during 
construction and commissioning.

Jacobs, in partnership with subconsultant Brown and 
Caldwell, led a team of over 20 firms to deliver planning, 
design, and services during construction. Predesign tasks 
included screening and selecting technologies for liquids, 
solids, and odor control; conducting pilot studies; authoring 
a facilities plan for the Brightwater system; developing 
treatment plant layouts; and preparing schematic design 
drawings of the new facility.

Project Innovations

Three-Dimensional (3D) Modeling Used to Optimize 
Facility Layouts The Jacobs team developed construction 
documents consisting of over 5,000 drawings and supporting 
specifications, organized into two contract packages. The 

drawings were prepared using 3D modeling software that 
provided detailed, graphical images of process facilities. The 
design team made extensive use of 3D visualization tools to 
enable County staff to optimize facility layouts for function 
and maintenance. The 3D model files were provided to the 
construction contractors to aid in planning and execution of 
their work.

MBR Process Reduces Pollutant Discharge An innovative split-

flow process wherein 98 percent of the annual flow is routed 
through the MBR for advanced treatment, while infrequent 
peak wet weather flows receive chemically enhanced primary 
clarification (CEPT) was used. The membrane bioreactor 
(MBR) and CEPT effluents are blended prior to discharge 
and meet the NPDES permit requirements. The split flow 
MBR offers improved effluent quality and reduced footprint 
at equal or less cost than competing processes. Since 
commencing discharge in October 2012, effluent quality 
has been excellent, with biochemical oxygen demand 
and total suspended solids values typically below permit 
reporting limits.

Solids Handling: Designed for Future Flexibility Solids 
handling facilities include gravity belt thickening, mesophilic 
anaerobic digestion, and centrifuge dewatering. The digesters 
are constructed with post-tensioned walls to minimize 
construction costs and configured to facilitate future 
conversion to a thermophilic process. All solids processing 
facilities, including the biosolids truck loading bay, are fully 
enclosed, with foul air conveyed to the odor control facilities.

Odor Control: Key to Public Support King County assured 
the surrounding community that Brightwater would have no 
odors—ever. To meet this challenge, process facilities are 
totally enclosed and ventilated to multiple-stage odor control 
systems. The odor control approach was instrumental to plant 
siting. Its successful operation—producing no detectable 
odors at the property line—has been critical to achieving 
community acceptance.

Resource Recovery/Reuse Class A reclaimed water is 
produced at Brightwater for reuse. Initially, 7 mgd (26 ML/d) 
of reuse capacity is provided. Space is reserved onsite for 
facilities that will increase reclaimed water production to 
21 mgd (80 ML/d). Reclaimed water is used off-site for 
golf course irrigation and on site for irrigation, toilet and 
urinal flushing, and other activities that do not require 
potable water.

Construction Services

Jacobs provided engineering services during construction 
including submittal reviews and responses to requests 
for information; onsite staffing; plant control system 
implementation; change order assistance; and startup 
planning and operational assistance. Construction was 
completed early in 2012.

Brightwater MBR



 Consider not building three additional aeration
basins for interim use as wet weather equalization.
Install either ballasted flocculation for direct
treatment of wet weather flows or use existing
structures such as the pre-aeration basins or the
TF/SC secondary clarifiers for wet weather
storage.

 Consider replacing the proposed aerated grit
chambers with vortex type grit units that provide
energy cost savings and reduction in odor control
requirements.

 Consider reducing the number of units for each
treatment process by balancing operational
flexibility and capital cost savings.

 Consider not constructing preaeration basins to
reduce capital and energy costs and odor control
requirements.

 Consider chemically enhanced clarification to
reduce the size of the activated sludge aeration
basins and increase the production of digester gas
and reduce overall energy costs.

 Incorporate advanced anaerobic digestion
processes and/or digestion pretreatment
technologies to increase the production of digester
gas and reduce overall energy costs.

 Incorporate flexibility in the design of facilities to
enable the future addition of emerging energy
saving technologies.

Tools for Collaboration:  
Effective Alternatives Evaluation 
and Selection 
As discussed, our team has identified a number of 
opportunities to optimize the Facilities Plan 
recommended approach. Finalizing selection of these 
alternatives to generate an overall solution for 
implementation will require collaboration and 
proactive discussion regarding cost, preferences, and 
adherence to the FACD requirements. 

Our team will assist County of Maui staff in 
effectively evaluating a large number of potential 
alternatives under several capacity and effluent limit 
scenarios. 

Our collaboration and communication approach is 
based upon a suite of process models and costing 
models which enable accurate sizing and costing of 
each alternative, including 3D visualizations of the 
proposed layouts. These tools, in combination with 
our existing understanding of your requirements and 
our lessons learned from similar installations, will 
assist County staff in evaluating each alternative in a 
timely and consistent manner throughout the 
project. 

The Jacobs team will incorporate tools for the 
completion of similar large-scale WWTP projects. 
This tool suite is comprised of Pro2D, CPES, 
Preview, and Replica. Our team’s integrated 
wastewater treatment analytical tools provide rapid 
and accurate assessment of alternatives to develop 
the optimal solution for the Central Maui Regional 
WWRF Project. 

The graphic on the following page illustrates how 
these tools can be used throughout all project phases, 
and the process our team will follow to 
collaboratively share ideas with your staff, including 
Pro2D process modeling to derive process sizing 
according to treatment requirements, CPES facility 
modeling to derive predesign life cycle costs and 
facility sizing, and Preview to permit 3D 
visualization. 

Tony Ali
Rectangle

Tony Ali
Rectangle





CPESTM
Conceptual and Parametric Engineering System

Around the world, communities are working to sustainably manage water resources for a variety of needs. 
With population growth, aging infrastructure, and climate risk, the management of water resources is 
becoming more complex. These complexities present challenges for municipalities and industries to 
manage water in a sustainable and economical way. To address these challenges, Jacobs has developed 
a unique software, CPESTM. This software generates conceptual-level designs and cost estimates 
for municipal and industrial water and wastewater projects that facilitate sustainable and economical 
decision-making early in the project. CPESTM integrates the three main conceptual components of early 
project planning (facility design criteria and footprints, construction cost estimates, and life cycle cost 
estimates) to provide a clearer picture of project scope and cost than traditional conceptual estimating 
techniques. From proposals to preliminary design, CPESTM streamlines the design development of 
concepts and facilitates making informed, defensible decisions that enable project advancement.

Visit www.jacobs.com
© Copyright 2018 Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. All rights reserved. 
BI0328181037MKE

With over 120 process models, CPESTM can be used on nearly all water and wastewater 
projects worldwide for conceptual design, cost estimating, and technology comparison. 
CPESTM utilizes parametric engineering algorithms based on the successful implementation 
of previous projects to provide detailed and accurate scope, cost estimates, and 3D 
visualizations for projects early in their lifespans. Compared with traditional conceptual 
estimating techniques, CPESTM yields a much clearer picture of the project’s unique scope and 
provides a Class 4 cost estimate to inform technical decision-making before investing in 
further detailed design. For each model, CPESTM outputs a 3D visualization of the facility 
layout based on general arrangement drawings derived from previous projects. This supports 
early stakeholder understanding and civil site layout.

1) CPES Output Allows Early Facility Preview 3) CAD Design Translates to Construction

Typical applications 
for CPESTM:

 ■ Drinking water treatment plants

 ■ Wastewater treatment plants

 ■ Industrial water treatment plants

 ■ Water and wastewater conveyance

 ■ Greenfield and upgrades/
expansion projects 

2) Preview Translates to CAD Design

CPESTM



Value of using CPESTM

 ■ Accurate and detailed cost estimates early 
in the project lifespan

 ■ Eliminates reliance on scaling cost based 
on similar projects, rules of thumb, cost 
curves, or manual quantity take-off cost 
estimating techniques

 ■ Substantially reduces time required to 
develop estimates

 ■ Increases cost estimate accuracy through 
the use of quantity take-offs and a material 
unit cost approach

 ■ Quickly provides capital and lifecycle cost, 
footprint, energy use, and environmental 
impact information for alternatives in 
multi-attribute decision models

 ■ Enables 3D visualization of facilities early in 
the project

 ■ Supports improved water management 
decision-making

CPESTM also produces lifecycle costs, 
energy usage, and an environmental 
impact summary, which includes 
greenhouse gas emissions, for each project. 
The environmental impact summary is 
based on key construction quantities 
(e.g. concrete, steel, earthwork, etc.) as 
well as facility power, chemical, and 
residuals consumption and/or generation. 
Early estimates of environmental impacts 
help to inform more sustainable water 
management decision-making.

“We have never seen such innovation, detailed planning, and information developed 
in such a short time scale by any consultant.”

— Paulo Nobre, SABESP Wastewater Technology Manager

“[Jacobs’] CPESTM platform allowed us to quickly and efficiently evaluate many 
identified facility alternatives. This enabled our team to more effectively discuss the 
options, evaluate alternatives, and make informed decisions. The ability to quickly 
move from a concept, with construction and life-cycle cost estimates, to a scaled 3D 
model that could be dropped onto our site layout, was invaluable. The application of 
the CPESTM toolset moved our project forward rapidly, providing defensible estimates 
and the ability to effectively evaluate project and environmental impacts. This 
information provided the groundwork for subsequent phases and allowed us to move 
forward with confidence in designing our preferred solution.”

— Roger McClain, Park City Municipal Corporation Public Utilities Engineering Manager

Examples of CPESTM projects

Project Client

CPES Conceptual 
(10%) Design 

Estimate (USD)

Actual 
Construction 

Bid Award (USD)
CPES % 

Difference
92 mgd (348 MLD) San Juan-Chama 
Treatment Facility

ABCWUA, 
Albuquerque, NM

$144.3M $159.5M -10.5

100 mgd (379 MLD) Twin Oaks 
Valley Treatment Plant

San Diego County 
Water Authority

$150.8M $157M -4.1

30 mgd (114 MLD) Upper Valley WTP El Paso Water Utility, TX $28.7M $27.4M +4.5

15 mgd (57 MLD) Buckman Direct 
Diversion Project

City and County of 
Santa Fe, NM

$192M $186M +3.2

50 mgd (189 MLD) Peter Binney WPF City of Aurora, CO $211M $190M +10.0

30 mgd (114 MLD) Phase I WTP Expansion City of Loveland, CO $7.6M $6.5M +14.5

38 mgd (144 MLD) Phase II WTP Expansion City of Loveland, CO $20M $23.5M --17.0

8 mgd (30 MLD) Long Pond WTP Falmouth, MA $39.2M $41.2M -5.1

19.3 mgd (73 MLD) Poughkeepsie 
WTP Ozone and Centrifuge Upgrade

Poughkeepsie, NY $16.7M $17.1M -2.4

HRSD Aquifer Replenishment System 
Project (Hampton Roads, Virginia)

 ■ Advanced treatment of wastewater effluent 
for injection into drinking water aquifer

 ■ CPESTM models developed for multiple 
20 MGD (76 MLD) advanced water 
treatment alternatives

 ■ Treatment design included membrane 
filtration (MF), reverse osmosis (RO), 
and ultraviolet advanced oxidation 
process (UVAOP)

SABESP Parque Novo Mundo Direct 
Potable Reuse Project (São Paulo, Brazil)

 ■ Upgraded existing treatment plant for direct 
potable reuse to supplement potable 
water supplies

 ■ Designed to respond to periods of drought 
in Brazil

 ■ Treatment approach included coarse and 
fine screens, bioreactor, membrane 
bioreactor (MBR), RO, UV disinfection, 
UVAOP, storage, and finished water pumping

CPESTM

3D Design
Visualization

Capital
Cost

Estimate

Environmental
Impact

Calculator

Lifecycle
Cost

Estimate

Contact us
For more information on CPESTM please contact: 

Jason Curl 
Software Applications 
Global Technology Leader 
T +1 720-286-5055 
jason.curl@jacobs.com

Joseph Zalla 
Parametric Engineering 
Subject Matter Expert 
T +1 385-474-8518 
joseph.zalla@jacobs.com



 
 

 
Wastewater Simulation 

 

© 2017 CH2M HILL  
 

What is Wastewater Simulation?   
Utilization of industry standard models to 
simulate (steady state or dynamic) and 
evaluate wastewater resource recovery 
facilities.   

Why Jacobs Wastewater Process? 

 

• Jacobs Wastewater Process uses its 
proprietary Pro2D2™ for wastewater 
simulation, but can use any other 
commercial model, based on client 
preference. 

• Jacobs developed Pro2D2 to allow for 
rapid integration of new technologies 
and design techniques. 

• Pro2D2 can directly output to the Jacobs 
industry leading cost estimating (CPES™) 
and dynamic hydraulic (Replica™) tools 

• Software can evaluate the ‘whole plant’ 
which means the model is not limited to 
just the biological treatment process, 
but also can evaluate and/or design 
other treatment processes such as 
primary treatment or residuals 
treatment systems. 

Wastewater simulation software is  
used on all wastewater projects  
and is the foundation of Jacobs 
wastewater process designs 
• Simulates biological treatment for numerous technologies such as 

-Activated Sludge -Anaerobic\Aerobic Digestion 
-Biofilms  
 (MBBR, IFAS, Trickling Filters) 

-Wetlands 

-Membrane Bioreactors  
• Rapid evaluation of multiple treatment configurations and/or 

technologies to determine an optimal solution 
• Evaluate the latest treatment technologies such as thermal 

hydrolysis (THP) and Nutrient (struvite) Recovery 
• Capabilities that include linking to Replica to create a full model of 

hydraulic, air, control and process systems 
• Design Information can be transferred to CPES™ to generate an 

early indication of project cost with minimal up-front information 
• Heat, power, and extraction calculations aid in maximizing 

potential for resource recovery 
 

“Who would you rather have?  A person 
who uses a model?  Or the person who 
wrote the model?” – Glen Daigger, 
Professor of Engineering Practice, 
University of Michigan 



 

 
 
© 2018 JACOBS  

Contact Us 
For more information on Pro2D2, please contact: 
Bruce Johnson 
Technology Fellow and Global Technology Leader in Wastewater Process Simulation 
Phone:  +1 720-286-5373 
Bruce.Johnson2@Jacobs.com 

 
Aqua Nueva WRF Bioreactor 

 
Denver Metro North  

 
Spokane County (WA) WRF 

 
Woonsocket (RI) Regional WWTP 

Wastewater Simulation Examples 

Pima County (AZ) Agua Nueva  
Water Reclamation Facility 
A first-of-its-kind dynamic simulation model integrating Replica 
hydraulics (liquid and air), operations and controls, and wastewater 
process relationships (Dynamic Pro2D2) to evaluate proposed process 
control strategies and control tuning set-points. 

• Pioneered High Rate Biological Contactor 
• $135M Project Cost 

Metro Reclamation District (CO)  
Northern Treatment Plant 
Pro2D2, Dynamita’s SUMO™, and CPES™ used extensively in design, 
construction, and startup of one of the most advanced nutrient 
removal treatment facilities in Western US.  

• $255M Progressive Design-Build of 24 mgd greenfield facility 

Spokane County (WA)  
Water Reclamation Facility 
Innovative, state-of-the-art 8 mgd membrane bioreactor and nutrient 
removal achieve lowest phosphorus effluent levels in North America.  
Included the first full-scale post-aerobic digester in North America for 
nitrogen load and volatile suspended solids reduction 

• $132M Construction, $6M/yr 20-yr O&M 

Woonsocket (RI) Regional  
Wastewater Treatment Facility 
Designed an innovative and cost effective process to achieve the 
state-of-the-art limits for the 16 mgd nutrient removal upgrades using 
an “AB process” within the existing aeration basins.  

• $84.1M Facility Upgrade ($37M Capacity, $47.3M 20-yr O&M) 



Your Partner in Infrastructure Investment
Funding Solutions to Advance Critical Projects and Support Economic Recovery

Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act 
(WIFIA)
The WIFIA program accelerates investment in water infrastructure 
by providing long-term, low-cost supplemental loans for significant 
regional projects. The WIFIA program was established by the Water 
Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act of 2014.

Eligible Borrowers
• Local, state, tribal, and federal government entities
• Partnerships and joint ventures
• Corporations and trusts
• Clean Water and Drinking Water State Revolving Fund (SRF) programs

Eligible Projects
• Wastewater conveyance and treatment 
• Drinking water treatment and distribution 
• Enhanced energy efficiency at drinking water and wastewater facilities
• Desalination, aquifer recharge, and water recycling 
• Property acquisition if it’s integral to the project or that mitigates 

environmental impact
• A combination of eligible projects secured by a common security 

pledge or submitted under one application by an SRF program

Program Features

$20M
Minimum project size for large 
communities.

$5M
Minimum project size for small 
communities (population of 
25,000 or less).

49%
Portion of eligible project costs 
that WIFIA can fund.

35 Yrs
Maximum final maturity date from 
substantial completion.

5 Yrs
Time that repayment may 
be deferred after substantial 
completion.

%
Interest rate will be approximately 
equal to the U.S. Treasury rate. 
Current rate is less than 1.5% for a 
30-year loan.

Jacobs Is a WIFIA Leader
100% Client Success Rate Obtaining WIFIA Loans for Clients

$700M In WIFIA Loan Proceeds to Date for Our Clients

4.5% Cost of Capital down to 1.85%

$50M in Average Savings for $400M Project



Recognizing the impact 
that WIFIA loans could have 
in improving and securing  
reliable drinking water 
supplies for communities in 
hurricane-prone South Florida, 
Jacobs partnered with North 
Miami Beach (NMB) Water to 
obtain approval for 
$62 million in WIFIA funding 
for its Regional Potable Water 
Improvements Project.  

Jafeth Baez, Director
City of North Miami Beach

 NMB Water

By NMB Water using WIFIA funds, we are 
able to obtain significant savings that 
will translate into high quality water at 
reasonable cost to our customers...” 

For more information, please contact 

Dennis Jackson
720.286.1376 
Dennis.Jackson@jacobs.com

Jacobs’ team of WIFIA consultants coordinates with local 
technical, environmental, and engineering staff to meet 
our clients’ funding needs. They are dedicated full-time 

to WIFIA program developments and coordinate with 
WIFIA government relations support in Washington DC. 

Benefits of WIFIA Program
Jacobs can assist with WIFIA and other 
funding solutions.
• Lowest cost financing directly from the US 

Treasury
• Designed for larger programs ($20M - $1B)
• Can be combined with traditional funding 

mechanisms
• 5-year construction period
• Delayed repayment—up to 10 years before 

payments start
• Flexible loan terms
• Multiple-source revenue pledge
• Credit quality does not impact interest rate
• Public perception that funding through EPA is 

desirable (community trust)
• WIFIA loan proceeds can be utilized first, before 

other higher cost sources, or last as a cash flow 
management instrument during construction

GRANTS

SRF LOANS

NE
W 

EM
ER

GI
NG

 

MO
DE

LS

P
R

IV
A

TE
 

FI
N

A
N

C
E

D
IR

EC
T

 F
EE

S

RE
VE

NU
E 

BO
ND

S

WIFIA funding complements a wide 
range of co-financing options and 

desired delivery methods

Holistic 
Funding 
Solution



 

 

E. RESUMES OF KEY PERSONNEL PROPOSED FOR THIS SERVICE CATEGORY  
(Complete one Section E for each key person.) 

12. NAME  

Ross Kaneko, P.E. 
13. ROLE IN THIS CONTRACT  

Principal-in-Charge 
14. YEARS EXPERIENCE  

a. TOTAL 

30 
b. WITH CURRENT FIRM 

30 
15. FIRM NAME AND LOCATION (City and State) 

Jacobs, Honolulu, Hawaii 
16. EDUCATION (DEGREE AND SPECIALIZATION) 

B.S./1990/Civil Engineering 
17. CURRENT PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION (STATE AND DISCIPLINE) 

Professional Engineer (Civil), Hawaii (8197-C), Exp. 4/30/2022 
18. OTHER PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS (Publications, Organizations, Training, Awards, etc.) 

Ross is the Client Account Manager for Hawaii and Guam. His responsibilities include the sales and delivery of projects in Hawaii 
and other Pacific Islands. He has participated in the planning, permitting, design, and construction management of various 
projects, including water infrastructure assessment and design; wastewater infrastructure assessment and design; water 
resource studies, assessments, and development; and corrosion engineering. 

19. RELEVANT PROJECTS 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Lahaina WWRF Odor Control Project, County of Maui, Lahaina, Hawaii 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2019 

CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable)  

a. 
(3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Project manager for the Lahaina WWRF Odor Control Project. The Preliminary 
Engineering Report evaluated different alternatives for managing and controlling odors 
at the plant. Proposed alternative configurations included an array of treatment 
technologies which included chemical scrubbers, carbon absorbers, organic biofilters, 
engineered media biofilters, biological packed bed scrubbers, and a Hydroxyl Radical 
Odor Control System. The proposed alternatives were compared based on their cost 
versus odor treatment level to determine which alternative provides the most value in 
terms of benefit-to-cost. Final construction documents were prepared. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Honouliuli Wastewater Treatment Plant Ocean Outfall 
Improvements/Rehabilitation, City and County of Honolulu, Ewa Beach, 
Hawaii 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

Ongoing 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable)  

b. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Project manager for the condition assessment of the Honouliuli Wastewater Treatment 
Plant Ocean Outfall for the City and County of Honolulu. The outfall was constructed in 
1978 and consists of approximately 9,200 feet of 84-inch diameter reinforced concrete 
pipe (land portion) and approximately 10,550 feet of 78" reinforced concrete pipe 
(ocean portion). The current task includes the work planning effort to understand the 
historical condition and future requirements of the outfall, and development of a plan 
to assess the current condition and provide recommendations for improvements or 
rehabilitation of the outfall. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Kaneohe-Kailua Sewer Tunnel, City and County of Honolulu, Kailua, Hawaii 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2018 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

2018 
c. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Deputy Project Director for the Kaneohe-Kailua Sewer Tunnel which conveys 
wastewater 3 miles from Kaneohe’s Waste Water Pre-Treatment Facility (WWPTF) to 
Kailua’s Regional Wastewater Treatment Plant (RWWTP). The gravity sewer tunnel was 
constructed with a tunnel boring machine 15 feet in diameter to install the 10-foot 
diameter pipe.  The tunnel ranges from a depth of 35 to 62 feet below ground level and 
includes a new influent pump station at the Kailua RWWTP. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

  



 

 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Kamehameha Highway Wastewater Pump Station Upgrade Project, 
Honolulu, Hawaii   

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

Ongoing 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
d. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Principal in charge for this project, which planned and designed facility improvements to 
provide for the future hydraulic capacity of the facility during wet weather storm 
events, as recommended by the Final Sewer I/I Plan submitted to the US Environmental 
Protection Agency (EPA). For this project, developed a preliminary engineering report, 
conducted pump station facility condition assessment and pump capacity testing, 
developed a design alternatives report, and prepared final construction documents.   

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
NPDES Storm Water Technical Training, City and County of Honolulu, 
Honolulu, Hawaii 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

Ongoing 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
e. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Project manager responsible for providing technical training and third-party storm water 
construction inspection services, related to the City’s Municipal Separate Storm Sewer 
System (MS4) NPDES permit to City staff and City consultants. The technical training 
encompasses construction site runoff, post-construction storm water management, 
illicit discharge investigations, pollution prevention and good housekeeping, industrial 
and commercial activities, and spill prevention, control and countermeasure plans. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 
 



 

 

E. RESUMES OF KEY PERSONNEL PROPOSED FOR THIS SERVICE CATEGORY  
(Complete one Section E for each key person.) 

12. NAME  

Tony Ali, P.E., PMP 
13. ROLE IN THIS CONTRACT  

Project Manager 
14. YEARS EXPERIENCE  

a. TOTAL 

32 
b. WITH CURRENT FIRM 

30 
15. FIRM NAME AND LOCATION (City and State) 

Jacobs, Honolulu, Hawaii 
16. EDUCATION (DEGREE AND SPECIALIZATION) 

M.S./1990/Civil Environmental Engineering 
B.S./1987/Metallurgical Engineering and Materials Science 
B.S./1984/Chemistry 

17. CURRENT PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION (STATE AND DISCIPLINE) 

Professional Engineer (Civil), Hawaii (13879); Nevada (13682); 
Maine (9144); Ontario (90251597) 
Project Management Institute (PMP #1417130); American 
Petrochemical Institute (API); Project Management Institute 
(PMP); U.S. Army Corps of Engineers QCM (POH1100074)   

18. OTHER PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS (Publications, Organizations, Training, Awards, etc.) 

Tony is a senior project manager with over 32 years of leadership experience and Honolulu office lead. He has engineering 
planning, design, construction, construction management, startup and operations experience with County of Maui, City and 
County of Honolulu, U.S. Department of Defense, and municipal and industrial programs and projects nationally and 
internationally. He continues to function as the project manager for the County of Maui on the Lahaina WWRF Stage 1A (WW15-
03) project and Lahaina WWRF R-1 Process Expansion (WW20-11) project. 

19. RELEVANT PROJECTS 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Lahaina WWRF Stage 1A Improvements (WW15-03), Lahaina, Hawaii 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2017 

CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable) 

2020 

a. 
(3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Project manager performing engineering design services during construction for 
wastewater reclamation facility step-feed biological nutrient removal bioreactor. Led 
Corvallis-based design team. Managed engineering contract and schedule and worked 
with County of Maui to execute contract amendments. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Kamehameha Wastewater Pump Station 36” Force Main Design, City and 
County of Honolulu, Honolulu, Hawaii (Local – Planning, Design, Construction) 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2017 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

Ongoing 
b. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Project manager for Environmental Assessment, permit reparation and detailed design 
preparation for 36” force main using open trench and horizontal directional drilling 
construction below Ke’ehi Lagoon Memorial Park, Moanalua Stream, and Kalihi Stream. 
Led Seattle based design team. Managed engineering contract and schedule and worked 
with City and County of Honolulu to execute contract amendments. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Waianae WWTP Improvements and Upgrades, Waianae, Hawaii (Local 
Construction) 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2017 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

Ongoing 
c. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Project manager for bid services and engineering design services during construction for 
wastewater treatment including rehabilitation of the primary clarifiers and primary 
effluent boxes and piping, replacement of the headworks screens. Led Corvallis based 
design team. Managed engineering contract and schedule and worked with City and 
County of Honolulu to execute contract amendments. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Marine Corps Base Hawaii, Kaneohe, Hawaii (Federal) PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2017 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
d. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Lead Engineer Facilities Maintenance Control Department. Military construction 
program planning and engineering at Water Reclamation Facility. Prepared design 
scopes of work and cost estimates for MILCON capital improvement projects including 
$75M Water Reclamation Facility compliance upgrade for nutrient removal and R1 
reuse quality. Briefed program to senior leadership to justify program needs. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 



 

 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Suncor Energy Fort Hills Phase 1 Camp Infrastructure (Greenfield) 
Fort Hills, Alberta, Canada 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2012 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

2014 
e. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Process and design management, construction support, startup and commissioning of a 
greenfield membrane water and a greenfield wastewater treatment facility in support 
of CDN $10B oil sands mining operation. Lead Engineer, Wastewater Treatment Plant 
Design, March 2012 – May 2015 – Suncor Energy, Fort McMurray, Alberta, Canada. 3D 
BIM Design and vendor package review for 350,000 gpd package wastewater treatment 
plant involving pump station, force mains, membrane operating system, denitrification, 
phosphorus removal and UV disinfection. Designed collection pumping station wet well, 
prepared equipment specification, and performed startup and commissioning. Prepared 
designs including process piping isometrics, composite sampler installation and 
centrifuge sludge feed and centrate return piping designs. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 
 



 1-1  

DIANE A. WAKAMATSU  
DBA DW CONSULTANT SERVICES

 
Summary 
Diane Wakamatsu possesses extensive experience 
in public services. As a former Executive Assistant 
to Mayor Arakawa and Mayor Tavares and a 
former Deputy County Clerk, she provided 
professional legislative and administrative services 
to government officials, Mayor’s Advisory 
Committees and Commissions, and to numerous 
community groups and organizations. She 
delivered technical support and assistance in 
lobbying for Federal and State legislative 
measures. Ms. Wakamatsu served as a 
Subconsultant to the CH2 Hill team in the 
development of a Statewide and Maui District 
Federal-Aid Highways 2035 Transportation Plan 
for State Department of Transportation (DOT). 

Relevant Experience  
Economic Development Specialist to Mayor 
Lingle, Ms. Wakamatsu served as Maui County’s 
representative on various committees, boards, 
organizations, and task forces. She monitored 
County grants and managed leases of County 
property within agricultural parks. Ms. Wakamatsu 
established networks with Maui Economic 
Development Board, Maui Chamber of 
Commerce, Maui Visitor Bureau, and Maui Hotel 
and Lodging Association, to promote and sustain 
small business development opportunities and to 
initiate and enhance visitor industry attractions and 
promotions. 
Executive Assistant, Ms. Wakamatsu wrote 
response letters to County Council Members and 
the Governor’s Office. She provided direct 
support, oversight and training, technical advice, 
and professional services to each respective 
Mayor’s administrative cabinet and office staff. 

Business Associate of Alice Lee, LLC, Ms. 
Wakamatsu participated in the development of 
nonprofit affordable housing projects and a 
proposed medical facility in Kanaha, Maui. She 
worked with the Mayor’s Office and County’s 
Department of Parks and Recreation to promulgate 
administrative rules for Maui County’s Residential 
Workforce Housing Policy and Waiehu Municipal 
Golf Course respectively. Her role required 
proficient oral and written communication, 
organizational skills, and effective public 
interaction. Ms. Wakamatsu’s knowledge and 
understanding of government operations, policies 
and procedures, land use requirements and 
regulations, along with her ability to effectively 
network with Federal, State, and County 
government officials and their staff, are assets to 
her work performance. 
Subconsultant to CH2M Hill, Ms. Wakamatsu 
provided technical support, logistical assistance, 
analytical evaluation/input, in networking and 
providing liaison services for the development of a 
Statewide Pedestrian Master Plan for State DOT. 
She facilitated/coordinated DOT site inspections 
and public (community) meetings held on Maui. 
Government Liaison, Ms. Wakamatsu, advised, 
assessed, and networked with State and County 
government offices to facilitate required permit 
approvals for the development of UH Maui 
College’s Aquaponics Greenhouse Facility Project.  
Consultant to Lokahi Pacific, Ms. Wakamatsu 
facilitated, coordinated, and ensured the issuance 
of required government approvals (including 
Archaeological Inventory Survey and 
Archaeological Preservation and Monitoring Plan) 
for multiple affordable housing projects. She 
attended and/or conducted meetings to prioritize 
and address ongoing issues and challenges that 
occurred. She networked with the project 
development team (i.e., architect, civil and traffic 
engineers, attorney, land surveyors, planning 
consultant, pre-construction and construction 
contractors, etc.) to minimize time delays, mitigate 
or resolve problems, and obtain compliance. 

B ACKGR OUN D 

Education/Training 

 B.S., Human Development, UH Manoa  

Experience in Public Service 

 25+ years in State & County Government  



 

 

E. RESUMES OF KEY PERSONNEL PROPOSED FOR THIS SERVICE CATEGORY  
(Complete one Section E for each key person.) 

12. NAME  

Abbey Mayer, AICP 
13. ROLE IN THIS CONTRACT  

Environmental Planner 
14. YEARS EXPERIENCE  

a. TOTAL 

15 
b. WITH CURRENT FIRM 

1 
15. FIRM NAME AND LOCATION (City and State) 

Jacobs, Honolulu, Hawaii 
16. EDUCATION (DEGREE AND SPECIALIZATION) 

B.A./Art/Yale University 
M.A./English/University of Hawaii, Manoa 
Certificate/Accounting/University of Hawaii, Manoa 

17. CURRENT PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION (STATE AND DISCIPLINE) 

American Institute of Certified Planners (AICP) Certification 
#31479 
Hawaii Chapter, American Planning Association 

18. OTHER PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS (Publications, Organizations, Training, Awards, etc.) 

Abbey has 15 years of experience with community-based master planning and transit planning, multi-jurisdictional permitting 
strategies and environmental compliance. As director of State Office of Planning, Mr. Mayer served as Director and Program 
Manager of the Hawaii Coastal Zone Management Program (CZM), which oversees the statewide Special Management Area 
(SMA) and Shoreline Setback permit systems. During this same period, he Chaired the State Climate Change Task Force, and 
Ocean Resources Management Plan Policy Group. As former Director of Planning, Permitting, and Right-of-Way for the Honolulu 
for Rapid Transit (HART), administered, managed, and coordinated the Planning, Permitting, and Right-of-Way Division for 
Honolulu’s $8.2 billion, 20-mile, 21-station, elevated guideway, light rail transit system (Honolulu Rail). 

19. RELEVANT PROJECTS 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Honolulu Authority for Rapid Transit (HART), Light-rail Transit System, 
Honolulu, Hawaii 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2018 

CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable)  

a. 
(3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Managed and directed all transit planning and environmental aspects of the Rail Project, 
ensuring compliance with Federal environmental Regulatory Acts, Executive Orders, 
Hawaii Revised Statutes, local land use regulations and agency requirements. Served as 
the HART Liaison to the FTA, and was responsible for consulting with the FTA and with 
the Project Management Oversight Consultant (PMOC) on matters related to transit 
planning and environmental issues. Oversaw preparation of documents to comply with 
NEPA, other federal environmental regulatory acts including the Endangered Species 
Act; the Clean Water Act; the Clean Air Act; the National Historic Preservation Act 
(NHPA); and Section 4(f) of the Department of Transportation Act. Managed 12 NEPA 
Post-Record of Decision evaluations of proposed project changes. Led an organization of 
approximately 30 HART staff, along with over 50 project consultants. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Various Planning Projects, Mayer & Associates Consulting Inc., Various 
Locations, Hawaii 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2016 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable)  

b. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

1. Artspace Projects, Inc., Honolulu, HI – Affordable Housing, preconstruction 
project manager, secured all required environmental clearances and permits, 
including NEPA compliance, HRS Ch. 343 Environmental Assessment, Hawaii 
201H certification, Development and Building Permits. 

2. Hawaii Alliance for Community-Based Economic Development (HACBED) 
a. Kau Community Development Plan – drafting and strategic review of the 

Economic Development chapters including history, current conditions, 
case studies and recommended future strategies and actions; 

b. City & County of Honolulu – City Council initiative for an Asset-Building 
Roadmap for family and community financial empowerment; 

c. Hawaii, Statewide– economic development planning for the 
coordination of future funding for the federal Economic Development 
Agency and the state Department of Hawaiian Home Lands. 

3. Molokai Renewables LLC—managed the Coastal Zone Management Act 
compliance and permitting plans for the proposed 200 MW Molokai wind farm, 
inter-island undersea cable, and related facilities. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 



 

 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Director, Hawaii State Office of Planning, Honolulu, Hawaii 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2011 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
c. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Abbey served as the Director of the State Office of Planning, presenting the State’s 
position on some of the largest land use district boundary amendments in State history; 
successfully downzoned the previously-urbanized Ka Iwi Coast into the Conservation 
District, paving the way for permanent preservation, and; directed and oversaw the 
state’s Coastal Zone Management Program, which oversees the statewide Special 
Management Area (SMA) and Shoreline Setback permit systems; conducts CZMA 
Federal Consistency Reviews for all Federal actions affecting the State’s coastal zone.  
• Authored State’s opinion used in HI and CA to secure an injunction against US 

Navy’s use of sonar in the coastal zone.  
• SMA permitting authority for all State Community Development District lands. 
• Coordinated the State’s Geographical Information System (GIS) 
• Chair, State Climate Change Task Force 
• Chair, Ocean Resources Management Plan Policy Group 
• Primary Lead, State Emergency Response Team, FEMA Emergency Support 

Function #14, Long-Term Community Recovery—in the event of a significant 
disaster (hurricane, tsunami, etc.) responsibility for directing and coordinating 
Hawaii’s long-term community recovery. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 
 



 

 

E. RESUMES OF KEY PERSONNEL PROPOSED FOR THIS SERVICE CATEGORY  
(Complete one Section E for each key person.) 

12. NAME  

Nancy Nishikawa, AICP 
13. ROLE IN THIS CONTRACT  

Environmental Planner 
14. YEARS EXPERIENCE  

a. TOTAL 

36 
b. WITH CURRENT FIRM 

5 
15. FIRM NAME AND LOCATION (City and State) 

Jacobs, Honolulu, Hawaii 
16. EDUCATION (DEGREE AND SPECIALIZATION) 

M.S./1982/Natural Resource Policy and Management 
M.U.P/1982/Urban Planning 
B.A./1979/Political Science 

17. CURRENT PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION (STATE AND DISCIPLINE) 

American Institute of Certified Planners (AICP), No. 5068 

18. OTHER PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS (Publications, Organizations, Training, Awards, etc.) 

Ms. Nishikawa brings 36 years of planning and environmental permitting experience. She provides environmental support to 
various projects in Jacobs’ Honolulu office. 

19. RELEVANT PROJECTS 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 FHWA, Central Federal Land Highway Division, Hawaii Bridge Program 
Various Locations, Hawaii 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

Ongoing 

CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable)  

a. 
(3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Environmental support for this IDIQ contract, which provides architect-engineer project 
development services, design and planning services, related plans, specifications and 
estimate (PS&E) deliverables, environmental assessment/permitting, as well as post-
design services during construction for nine bridge rehabilitation/replacement projects 
located on Oahu, Kauai, and Hawaii Island. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Oahu Metropolitan Planning Organization, Oahu Regional Transportation Plan, 
Honolulu, Hawaii 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

Ongoing 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable)  

b. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Providing environmental/transportation support for developing conceptual 
transportation system projects or programs to address areas of substandard 
performance and estimating the impact of the transportation projects included in the 
ORTP on Title VI and Environmental Justice populations on Oahu. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Vineyard Boulevard, Installation of Traffic Signals at River Street,  
Honolulu, Hawaii 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2018 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

2019 
c. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Providing environmental and transportation design support for this project to install a 
signalized actuated pedestrian crosswalk across Vineyard Boulevard. Aa new traffic 
signal is needed to facilitate traffic movement and allow for pedestrian crossing. The 
proposed traffic signal will be tied into the existing signal network. Timing will be 
coordinated with Aala Street and Maunakea Street intersections to minimize impacts to 
current traffic operations.   

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Honolulu Rail Transit Project, General Engineering Consultant Support (GEC III) 
Honolulu, Hawaii 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

Ongoing 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

Ongoing 
d. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Providing planning and environmental support for the Honolulu Rail Transit Project, a 
20-mile elevated rail line with 21 stations. The rail system begins in East Kapolei and will 
extend to Ala Moana Center. The Jacobs team is providing project scheduling, cost 
estimating and project controls, interface management, environmental compliance, 
bus/rail integration, station access and modal interface, TOD, traffic analysis, parking 
study, and design management services including management of final design contracts, 
review of final design submittals, system wide signage, landscape, signals, and ITS 
operational support. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 



 

 

E. RESUMES OF KEY PERSONNEL PROPOSED FOR THIS SERVICE CATEGORY  
(Complete one Section E for each key person.) 

12. NAME  

Bruce Johnson, P.E., BCEE 
13. ROLE IN THIS CONTRACT  

Lead Wastewater Process Technologist  
14. YEARS EXPERIENCE  

a. TOTAL 

32 
b. WITH CURRENT FIRM 

25 
15. FIRM NAME AND LOCATION (City and State) 

Jacobs, Denver, Colorado 
16. EDUCATION (DEGREE AND SPECIALIZATION) 

M.E./1988/Environmental Systems Engineering 
B.S./1986/Chemical Engineering 

17. CURRENT PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION (STATE AND DISCIPLINE) 

Professional Engineer, Utah, 1990 
American Academy Environmental Engineers Board Certified 
Environmental Engineer (BCEE) 
International Water Association Fellow  

18. OTHER PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS (Publications, Organizations, Training, Awards, etc.) 

Bruce is a Technology Fellow and process engineer in Jacob’s Buildings, Infrastructure and Advanced Facilities Group. He formerly 
held the role of Global Technology Leader for Municipal Wastewater Treatment within CH2M, and the Global Practice Leader for 
Wastewater Simulation.  He has a broad range of capabilities in industrial and municipal wastewater treatment, both domestic 
and internationally. His specialty has been the design, modeling, and sizing of biological treatment systems, solid-liquid 
separation equipment, and waste sludge reduction. Bruce has over 30 years of experience in operating, troubleshooting, and 
designing water and wastewater treatment plants and equipment. 

19. RELEVANT PROJECTS 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Honouliuli Wastewater Treatment Plant, Oahu, Hawaii 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

Ongoing 

CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable) 

Ongoing 

a. 
(3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

CH2M (now Jacobs) was selected with RM Towill Corporation to deliver an upgrade for 
full secondary treatment and sludge system design for this 42 million gallons per day 
(mgd) wastewater treatment plant (WWTP). Bruce is the lead technologist and is 
working with the City and County of Honolulu to upgrade this facility. The expansion 
includes A-Stage treatment with a DAF Clarifier, an innovative step feed system design, 
sludge thermal hydrolysis, and sludge drying. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Hampton Roads Sanitation District SWIFT Program, Hampton Roads, Virginia 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2020 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable)  

b. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

CH2M (now Jacobs) was selected as the owner’s advisor for >$1 billion groundwater 
augmentation program via managed aquifer recharge. This project consists of an 
indirect potable reuse program will treat up to 120 mgd of secondary effluent to 
drinking water standards using advanced treatment for injection into the Potomac 
Aquifer System. The project drivers are to avoid further nutrient limitations for WWTP 
discharge and to reduce environmental and commercial impacts associated with 
continued groundwater depletion. Bruce is serving as the wastewater process and 
simulation lead for improving the quality of the secondary effluent fed to the indirect 
potable reuse system. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Changi Water Reclamation Plant Digital Twin, Singapore Public Utility Board 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

Ongoing 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
c. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Wastewater Process Lead for the development of a Digital Twin of the Changi WRP. This 
digital twin is the first integration in the world of online data analytics with hydraulics, 
controls and process modeling, coupled with wastewater facility process forecasting. 
Bruce is responsible for integrating all the components in a way that works well for the 
way wastewater facilities are run. He is also responsible for the wastewater process 
simulation part of this work using the Sumo™ whole plant dynamic simulator. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

  



 

 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Northern Treatment Plant, Metro Sanitation District, Denver, Colorado PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2013 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
d. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

CH2M (now Jacobs) was selected to deliver this 24 mgd Greenfield wastewater 
treatment plant on the progressive design build deliver platform. Bruce is the lead 
technologist on this project that is worked with the District to design and build the new 
plant to achieve less than 0.1 mg/L total phosphorus and less than 6 mg/L total nitrogen 
and includes one of the first post aerobic digesters in North America. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
WRF Design Build Operate Project, Pima County, Arizona PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2013 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
e. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Bruce was the lead process technologist for the Greenfield 32 mgd Pima County 
Regional WRF. This plant is designed to achieve low levels of both nitrogen and 
phosphorus in the effluent, while using an innovated dissolved oxygen control system to 
control effluent ammonia to specific target levels for the downstream chloramination 
disinfection system. Bruce also supported startup and acceptance testing of this facility.  
This facility has won numerous industry awards: 

• 2014 DBIA National Award of Excellence in Water/Wastewater 
• 2014 DBIA Merit Award in Water/Wastewater  
• 2014 DBIA Excellence in Process Award (process in how the DB team delivered) 
• 2014 AAEES Grand Prize in Design 
• 2014 ENR Southwest Best Project Award in Water/Environment  
• 2014 Arizona Water ‘Wastewater Treatment Project of the Year’ 
• 2013 Water & Wastes Digest Top Water and Wastewater Project 
• 2013 Environmental Business Journal Water/Wastewater Project Merit Award 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 
 



 

 

E. RESUMES OF KEY PERSONNEL PROPOSED FOR THIS SERVICE CATEGORY  
(Complete one Section E for each key person.) 

12. NAME  

William Leaf, P.E. 
13. ROLE IN THIS CONTRACT  

Process Lead/Startup & Commissioning 
14. YEARS EXPERIENCE  

a. TOTAL 

25 
b. WITH CURRENT FIRM 

23 
15. FIRM NAME AND LOCATION (City and State) 

Jacobs, Boise, Idaho 
16. EDUCATION (DEGREE AND SPECIALIZATION) 

M.E./1997/Civil Engineering (Wastewater Treatment) 
B.S./1993/Civil Engineering  

17. CURRENT PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION (STATE AND DISCIPLINE) 

Professional Engineer, Idaho (9414), 1999; Washington (45464), 
2009 

18. OTHER PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS (Publications, Organizations, Training, Awards, etc.) 

Bill is a principal technologist specializing in wastewater reclamation for Jacobs. He has experience in the planning, design, 
construction, and startup of wastewater treatment facilities and has been involved in studies for permit negotiation, water 
quality issues, pretreatment, and user charge systems. Bill has national and international experience and has completed projects 
for public and private sector clients. 

19. RELEVANT PROJECTS 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Lahaina Wastewater Reclamation Facility (WWRF) Stage 1A Improvements, 
County of Maui, Hawaii 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2020 

CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable)  

a. 
(3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

As a senior technology consultant, Bill assisted with the startup and commissioning of 
the unit processes included in the Stage 1A Project. This included assisting as the on-site 
process engineer during the June 2019 bypass event around the Secondary Clarifier 
Splitter Box. Bill also helped as the onsite process engineer during the December 2019 – 
January 2020 startup and commissioning of the Flexible Aeration Basin (FAB) and 
Conventional Aeration Basin (CAB). 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Riverside Park Water Reclamation Facility (WRF) NLT Related Projects; 
Spokane, Washington 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

Ongoing 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable)  

b. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Bill is the senior technology consultant providing senior review for the Next Level of 
Treatment (NLT) related projects. These include the installation of a new primary 
clarifier, upgrade to the chemically enhanced primary treatment system, modifications 
to existing aeration basins (to provide anoxic selectors), and other site improvements. 
These projects position the WRF for the follow-on NLT project, where tertiary 
membranes are installed to provide for a high level of total phosphorus removal. Bill is 
currently providing operational training and coordination of the NLT Related Project 
processes with the NLT (Tertiary Membrane) unit processes. This includes working with 
City staff to develop and operation strategy for the unit processes that are used to 
mitigate high storm flow and loads, protecting the tertiary membrane system from 
overloading. The tertiary membrane system is sized to treat 90-percent of all influent 
flows at the facility, providing and overall net environmental benefit with the receiving 
stream. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Spokane County Regional Water Reclamation Facility, Spokane County, 
Washington 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2016 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
c. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Bill was the senior engineer tasked to optimize the treatment facility and develop cost-
effective capacity improvements. This involves a detailed calibration and validation of 
CH2M HILL’s (now Jacobs) Pro2D2™ whole-plant process simulator, followed by the 
development of a calibrated Envirosim Biowin™ process simulation. Several treatment 
alternatives are evaluated, to provide a cost-effective capacity expansion without a 
significant impact to the overall site layout at the facility. This evaluation led to the 
design and construction of primary effluent equalization, maximizing the capacity of the 
downstream aeration basin and membrane bioreactor system. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 



 

 

Bill was the lead process design engineer for the secondary treatment process during the 
development of the Design-Build-Operate proposal (2007 – 2008) for this green-field 
treatment facility. This involved completing the conceptual evaluation and design of a 
secondary treatment process that provides high levels of nitrogen and phosphorus 
removal. Step-feed biological nitrogen removal, chemical treatment for phosphorus 
removal, side-stream treatment technologies, and membrane bioreactors are utilized. The 
process is designed to meet a total phosphorus limit of 0.05-mg TP/L. Bill was also 
involved in the startup and commissioning of this facility, helping optimize the plant to 
meet the effluent total phosphorus limit. This involved the development of a dynamic 
process simulation to help evaluate the treatment facility. 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Nampa Wastewater Treatment Plant Phase 1 Upgrades, City of Nampa, Idaho PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

Ongoing 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
d. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Bill was the senior technology consultant for the CH2M (now Jacobs) team to complete 
the Nampa Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) Phase 1 Upgrades design. This design 
incorporates improvements to the facility, allowing the City to meet initial total 
phosphorus effluent requirements. The project involves infrastructure modifications to 
their existing primary treatment and trickling filter systems, modification of the existing 
aeration basins to provide enhanced biological phosphorus removal (EPBR), and 
installation of a new EBPR configured aeration basin. Bill is currently the senior 
technology consultant for the Progressive Design-Build proposal for the Project Group F 
expansion of the Nampa WWTP. The City of Nampa awarded the project to Jacobs, with 
work commencing August 2020. The expansion of the WWTP includes an additional 
EBPR aeration basin, blower facility, secondary clarifier, tertiary filtration, UV 
disinfection, and solids handling improvements. Bill will continue as the Senior 
Technology Consultant through the duration of the project. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Twin Falls Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) Phase 2 Expansion, Twin 
Falls, Idaho 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

Ongoing 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
e. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Senior technologist for the Phase 2 Expansion of the WWTP. This expansion provides a 
70-percent increase in WWTP process capacity, based around the incorporation of an 
integrated fixed-film activated sludge (IFAS) process. Bill developed the overall process 
concepts and layout for the expansion and provided senior review throughout the 
design process. This expansion maximizes the overall capacity of the WWTP site, 
allowing for future economic growth in the City’s user area.  
The WWTP Phase 2 Expansion was commissioned in the summer of 2015 and Bill has 
been actively involved in the optimization of the system since. Recently, there has been 
an effort to provide a level of enhanced biological phosphorus removal (EBPR) at the 
site. This includes looking at nutrient profiles across the bioreactor, evaluating the 
influent wastewater characteristics, and investigating options to potentially generate 
supplemental carbon to help drive the EBPR process. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 
 



 

 

E. RESUMES OF KEY PERSONNEL PROPOSED FOR THIS SERVICE CATEGORY  
(Complete one Section E for each key person.) 

12. NAME  

Dale Gabel, P.E., BCEE 
13. ROLE IN THIS CONTRACT  

Wastewater QA/QC 
14. YEARS EXPERIENCE  

a. TOTAL 

42 
b. WITH CURRENT FIRM 

17 
15. FIRM NAME AND LOCATION (City and State) 

Jacobs, Englewood, Colorado 
16. EDUCATION (DEGREE AND SPECIALIZATION) 

M.S./1987/Civil Engineering  
B.S./1975/Civil Engineering 

17. CURRENT PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION (STATE AND DISCIPLINE) 

Professional Engineer, Hawaii (PE15692), Exp. 4/30/2022; 
Colorado (18702); Kansas (17132); Alaska (9272); Nebraska (E-
10584); New Mexico (13328) 
Board Certified Environmental Engineer (BCEE) 

18. OTHER PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS (Publications, Organizations, Training, Awards, etc.) 

Dale is Jacobs' Wastewater Practice Lead for the western U.S. He has extensive experience providing the full suite of engineering 
services for wastewater treatment facilities and a strong background in facilities planning and process engineering for municipal 
and industrial wastewater treatment plants. He has interfaced extensively with local, state, and federal regulatory agencies and 
has participated in numerous public meetings as a technical expert. His proven expertise as a program and project manager 
includes projects ranging from $5,000 to $50M and involving the evaluation, permitting, design, and construction of private and 
public facilities 

19. RELEVANT PROJECTS 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Honouliuli WWTP Upgrades, City and County of Honolulu, Hawaii 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

Ongoing 

CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable)  

a. 
(3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Directing the planning and design of a $450M upgrade to the Honouliuli WWTP to meet 
the requirements of an EPA mandated consent decree and increase the plant capacity 
to 40 mgd. Key elements of the project include phased conversion of the existing 
trickling filter/solids contact biological treatment process to an activated sludge system 
that can be converted to a BNR system in the future when nutrient removal 
requirements are implemented and upgrading the solids processing facilities to serve as 
a regional biosolids processing and drying facility to support five additional WWTPs and 
eliminate landfilling of treated biosolids. The design is focused on repurposing existing 
structures and achieving net energy neutrality through extensive energy conservation 
approaches and energy generation in a new combined heat and power (CHP) facility. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Odor Control Master Plan Study, Metro Wastewater Reclamation District 
Denver, Colorado 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2017 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable)  

b. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Directed the project to sample and evaluate sources of odors, provide phased long-term 
planning of control approaches, and proactively manage future odor control issues and 
related costs for the 200-mgd Robert W. Hite Wastewater Treatment Facility and 
associated collection system. The control measures were recommended for phased 
implementation and ranged from $2M to $48M in total project costs. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Lander Street Water Renewal Facility - 2020 Wastewater Facilities Plan, City of 
Boise, Idaho 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2020 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
c. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

As Senior Consultant, Dale led the decision analysis to compare collection and treatment 
scenarios to expanding the City’s current system and meet future regulatory 
requirements. Key alternatives evaluated included consolidating the City’s two 
wastewater plants into one or upgrading both and installation of multiple water 
reclamation facilities in the collection system to provide reuse water near potential 
customers. The project also evaluated numerous sustainability options such as the 
“mining” the phosphorus from the upgraded wastewater treatment plants to be sold as 
a fertilizer and installation of biogas cogeneration systems. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

  



 

 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Biosolids Management Master Plan Update, Westminster, Colorado PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2013 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
d. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Directed the master plan update study that included the evaluation of existing 
thickened solids storage facilities and the Strasburg Natural Resource Farm Capacity. 
Twelve biosolids management alternatives were developed that incorporated various 
final disposal options, Class A and Class B stabilization options, and 
thickening/dewatering options appropriate for the City. Enhanced farming practices and 
an improved land application monitoring program were recommended. A 20-year 
capital improvements plan (CIP) was also developed. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 
 



 

 

E. RESUMES OF KEY PERSONNEL PROPOSED FOR THIS SERVICE CATEGORY  
(Complete one Section E for each key person.) 

12. NAME  

Kandi Maestri, P.E. 
13. ROLE IN THIS CONTRACT  

Design Manager 
14. YEARS EXPERIENCE  

a. TOTAL 

25 
b. WITH CURRENT FIRM 

25 
15. FIRM NAME AND LOCATION (City and State) 

Jacobs, Corvallis, Oregon 
16. EDUCATION (DEGREE AND SPECIALIZATION) 

B.S./Electrical Engineering 
17. CURRENT PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION (STATE AND DISCIPLINE) 

Professional Engineer, Oregon (53782PE) 
18. OTHER PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS (Publications, Organizations, Training, Awards, etc.) 

Kandi is a design manager with Jacobs’ in Corvallis, Oregon. She is responsible for managing the overall design effort on projects 
including staff, schedule, quality and budget controls and coordinating with clients to meet their project needs. As design 
manager and quality control manager, she is responsible for multidiscipline design and has had design management experience 
on numerous projects on which she has had both lead electrical and design manager responsibilities. 

19. RELEVANT PROJECTS 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Lahaina Wastewater Reclamation Facility Stage 1A Improvements, County of 
Maui, Hawaii   

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2016 

CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable)  

a. 
(3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Design Manager responsible for managing an interdisciplinary, design team for the $38-
million expansion of a wastewater treatment plant. The plant upgrades include a 
preselection package for equipment, a new aeration basin, blowers and secondary 
clarifier and modifications to existing aeration basins, solids processing facility and 
RAW/WAS systems. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 San Jose-Santa Clara Regional Water Reclamation Facility, Headworks Project, 
City of San Jose, California 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

Ongoing 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable)  

b. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Design Manager for a $125 million design build project that includes a new headworks 
facility including 280 mgd screens, influent pumping and grit collection, a new force 
main, and improvements to the existing primary distribution system at the treatment 
plant. The project includes significant interface and coordination with the $1B Capital 
Improvement Program. The design build project includes early equipment procurement 
packages and construction packages. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Grants Pass Wastewater Treatment Plant Improvements, City of Grants Pass, 
Oregon 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2017 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

2019 
c. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Design Manager responsible for managing an interdisciplinary design team for the $30M 
design build project. The project included expanding the current wastewater treatment 
plant including a new aeration basin, blowers and secondary clarifier and rehabilitation 
of an existing clarify and gravity thickener and replacement of the existing electrical and 
control systems. The design build project includes early equipment procurement 
packages and construction packages. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Confidential Oil & Gas Client, Texas PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2016 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
d. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Design Manager for this fast-paced program including over 20 different design packages 
with a total construction value in excess $100-million. The interdisciplinary design team 
was located in multiple offices across the US. Design included civil works and pump 
stations at multiple sites. Responsibilities included development of program standards 
and managing staff to meet client demands including frequent changes to facility 
locations and design criteria.   

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

  



 

 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Carmen Powerhouse Improvements and Turbine Generator Refurbishment 
Package, Eugene Water and Electric Board, Eugene, Oregon 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2013 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
e. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Design Manager responsible for managing interdisciplinary design teams for 
powerhouse improvements on this Construction Manager/General Manager (CMGC) 
project as well as equipment procurement package for the turbine generator 
refurbishment. Responsible for successful delivery of the design product and for 
coordinating between the multiple design packages. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 
 



 

 

E. RESUMES OF KEY PERSONNEL PROPOSED FOR THIS SERVICE CATEGORY 
(Complete one Section E for each key person.) 

12. NAME 

Carl Koester, P.E., S.E. 
13. ROLE IN THIS CONTRACT 

Structural Engineer, Assistant Design Manager 
14. YEARS EXPERIENCE 

a. TOTAL 

13 
b. WITH CURRENT FIRM 

12 
15. FIRM NAME AND LOCATION (City and State) 

Jacobs, Corvallis Oregon 
16. EDUCATION (DEGREE AND SPECIALIZATION) 

M.S./2007/Civil Engineering  
B.S./2005/Civil Engineering 

17. CURRENT PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION (STATE AND DISCIPLINE) 

Professional Engineer: Hawaii (PE -17714); California (76960); New Mexico (24129); Oklahoma 
(30229 PE); Oregon (76494PE); Rhode Island (10185); Washington (47987) 
Structural Engineer: Hawaii (PE -17714 SE); Oklahoma (30229 SE); Oregon (76494 SE) 

18. OTHER PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS (Publications, Organizations, Training, Awards, etc.) 

Mr. Koester has 12 years of experience in structural design in areas of high seismicity. He is experienced in design of hydraulic 
and building structures for various water and wastewater treatment facilities and has served as the Project Field Engineer 
during the construction of a design-build-operate wastewater treatment facility. He has also  

19. RELEVANT PROJECTS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

a. 

(1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

Waianae WWTP Improvements and Upgrade, City and County of Honolulu, 
Waianae, Hawaii 

PROFESSIONAL 
SERVICES 

Ongoing 

CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable) 

(3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Performed structural analysis and design for the upgrades project. Compiled specifications 
and drawings. Assisted the design manager during design and performed as lead design 
manager for Services During Construction (SDC). Executed design manager role for Phase II 
design. Project includes replacement of headworks screening equipment, valves, and grit 
transfer facilities, restoration of concrete surfaces and lining materials in preaeration and 
primary sedimentation tanks, replacement of primary sludge and scum removal 
mechanisms. 

 Check if project performed with 
current firm 

 
 
 
 
 

b. 

(1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

Lahaina WWRF Modifications, Stage 1A, County of Maui, Lahaina, Hawaii PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 
Ongoing 

CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable) 

(3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Performed structural analysis and design for the Stage 1A project, including design of 
structural modifications for the existing blower building and solids facility. Also included the 
structural design of a 2.0-million-gallon concrete bio-reactor. Design manager for the 
services during construction effort. Project will add new secondary treatment units that will 
improve the reliability of the facility at the rated 9 MGD design capacity while 
accommodating maintenance of individual process basins. 

 Check if project performed with 
current firm 

 
 
 
 
 

c. 

(1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

Kamehameha Highway Wastewater Pump Station Upgrade, Honolulu, Hawaii PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 
Ongoing 

CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable) 

(3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Performed design for a seismic upgrade to the existing pump station facility, included 
analyzing the existing structure and identifying items to enhance performance. Designed the 
structural upgrades, vaults and miscellaneous structural elements. This project will 
rehabilitate the concrete walls of the existing influent wet wells of the pump station. It will 
replace the existing pumps and modify the pump room providing new grating and access. 
Project will upgrade the structural performance of the building by providing braced frames 
and modifying the existing foundations. 

 Check if project performed with 
current firm 

 
 

  



 

 

 
 
 
 
 

d. 

(1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

San Jose-Santa Clara WWTP Headworks Project, City of San Jose, California 
PROFESSIONAL 
SERVICES 

Ongoing 

CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable) 

(3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Mr. Koester is the Assistant Design Manager and Existing Facility Lead for the 
preliminary treatment program upgrade at the San Jose-Santa Clara WWTP. A new 
260 mgd Headworks is being designed to operate in parallel with an existing wet 
weather headworks for this 400 mgd advanced treatment plant. Mr. Koester is also 
serving as the Assistant Design Manager through construction of the project.  

 Check if project performed with 
current firm 

 
 
 
 
 

d. 

(1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

Spokane County Water Reclamation Facility, Spokane County, Washington 
PROFESSIONAL 
SERVICES 

Ongoing  

CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable) 

Ongoing 
(3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Spokane County WRF is a green field wastewater treatment plant (~8mgd). The 
plant was designed, constructed and continues to be operated by Jacobs. Mr. 
Koester served as member of the structural design team, completing the design of 
the Headworks building, Membrane facility and Waste Gas Burner facility. During 
construction Mr. Koester acted as the resident structural engineer from 2009-2010. 
During this time Mr. Koester worked as a part of the quality control team working 
with the contractor overseeing construction. Mr. Koester continues to facilitate 
operations staff with ongoing engineering services which include designing an 
aeration basin retrofit, methanol facility, blower building enclosure, flow 
equalization facility and centrifuge platform.  

 Check if project performed with 
current firm 

 
 



 

 

E. RESUMES OF KEY PERSONNEL PROPOSED FOR THIS SERVICE CATEGORY  
(Complete one Section E for each key person.) 

12. NAME  

Scott Champlin, P.E. 
13. ROLE IN THIS CONTRACT  

Mechanical Engineer 
14. YEARS EXPERIENCE  

a. TOTAL 

14 
b. WITH CURRENT FIRM 

14 
15. FIRM NAME AND LOCATION (City and State) 

Jacobs, Englewood, Colorado 
16. EDUCATION (DEGREE AND SPECIALIZATION) 

B.S./2005/Mechanical Engineering 
17. CURRENT PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION (STATE AND DISCIPLINE) 

Professional Engineer: Hawaii (No. 16219-M); Exp. 4/30/2022; 
Colorado (#0045907) 

18. OTHER PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS (Publications, Organizations, Training, Awards, etc.) 

Scott is a project manager and process mechanical engineer with Jacobs’ Water Business Group. He has experience as the 
mechanical engineer of record for process mechanical design for water and wastewater facilities, including potable water and 
wastewater pump stations, designing water and wastewater treatment processes, infrastructure condition assessments, 
hydraulic modeling, rotating equipment, and other aspects of mechanical design for standard design bid and design build 
delivery. He also performs as project manager for multidisciplinary design teams on small and large water and wastewater 
infrastructure projects. 

19. RELEVANT PROJECTS 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Honouliuli Wastewater Treatment Plant Secondary Treatment Phase 1A – 
Sludge Drying and Related Facilities, Hawaii 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

Ongoing 

CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable)  

a. 
(3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Design Manager and lead mechanical engineer for solids improvements to the 
Honouliuli WWTP that includes a Concept Design for overall facility planning and the 
detailed design of Phase 1A ($60M construction). Project includes conceptual design for 
implementation of thermal hydrolysis, combined heat and power, and low temperature 
belt dryers for biological solids.  The detailed design included a cake receiving facility, 
dewatering facility, and belt dryer facility with accommodations for future expansions. 
Role including leading the mechanical design and managing the design team, design 
scope and budget, and all engineering for the entire project.  Project is currently out to 
bid for construction. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Wastewater and Water Treatment Systems Statewide Airports, Hawaii 
Department of Transportation (HDOT), Hawaii 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2017 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

Ongoing 
b. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Conducted a preliminary study and design alternatives report for replacing potable 
water uses for non-potable applications at Honolulu (HNL), Kahului (OGG), Kona (KOA), 
and Hilo (ITO) International Airports. Projects included use of reuse water for irrigation 
and HVAC equipment at HNL, designing a scalping plant to treat wastewater to R1 
quality for irrigation and HVAC equipment, rainwater catchment system/storage/and 
conveyance for irrigation and potable water use at KOA and ITO. Developed a 30% 
design and Request for Proposal (RFP) for a Design Build contract issued by HDOT. 
Project is currently in construction for project at OGG. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Kamehameha Highway Wastewater Pump Station Upgrade Project 
Honolulu, Hawaii 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

Ongoing 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
c. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Lead Mechanical Engineer and Project Manager for facility improvements to provide for 
the future hydraulic capacity of the facility during wet weather storm events as 
recommended by the Final Sewer I/I Plan submitted to the US Environmental Protection 
Agency (EPA). For this project, Jacobs developed preliminary engineering report, 
conducted pump station facility condition assessment and pump capacity testing, 
developed design alternatives, and completed detailed design and construction 
documents for the selected alternative. Services during construction is ongoing and 
includes submittal reviews, site investigations, and responses to RFI’s. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 



 

 

E. RESUMES OF KEY PERSONNEL PROPOSED FOR THIS SERVICE CATEGORY  
(Complete one Section E for each key person.) 

12. NAME  

Darren Edwards, P.E. 
13. ROLE IN THIS CONTRACT  

Mechanical Engineer 
14. YEARS EXPERIENCE  

a. TOTAL 

25 
b. WITH CURRENT FIRM 

25 
15. FIRM NAME AND LOCATION (City and State) 

Jacobs, Corvallis, Oregon 
16. EDUCATION (DEGREE AND SPECIALIZATION) 

B.S./1993/Mechanical Engineering  
17. CURRENT PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION (STATE AND DISCIPLINE) 

Professional Engineer (Mechanical): Oregon, 1999 (No. 60026); 
Washington, 2006 (No. 42486): Arizona, 2019 (No. 69048), 
California, 2019 (No. 39743) 

18. OTHER PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS (Publications, Organizations, Training, Awards, etc.) 

Darren is part of Jacobs’ Buildings, Infrastructure and Advanced Facilities Group with a focus on the Water industry. His 
technical experience includes detailed design and construction management of mechanical systems on water and wastewater 
treatment systems. He also has design experience on hydroelectric powerhouse and fish passage systems. His primary areas of 
expertise include pumping systems, piping systems, control valves, gates, compressed air systems, cooling water systems, 
heating water systems, aeration air systems, dewatering systems, digester systems, drain systems, monorail and crane 
systems, engine generator systems, fuel oil storage systems, and multiple other water and wastewater treatment process 
equipment systems. Darren’s experience includes design team lead roles such as facility lead on digester facilities, process air 
blower facilities, aeration basins, thickening and dewatering facilities, flocculation basins, raw water flow control systems, 
water distribution pump stations, raw sewage pump stations, ultraviolet advanced oxidation process, and sand filters. In 
addition, his design team experience includes lead process mechanical engineer experience on multiple water and wastewater 
treatment plant designs and design management experience.  

19. RELEVANT PROJECTS 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Water Resource Recovery Facility Project, City of San Luis Obispo, California 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2019 

CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable) 

Ongoing 

a. 
(3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Facility design lead for the digester facilities including existing digester rehabilitation, 
new digester design, digester sludge storage tank design, digester and storage tank 
pumped mixing design, digester hot water heating system, and digester gas system 
design. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Spokane County Water Reclamation Facility, Spokane County, Washington 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2009 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

2011 
b. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Lead Mechanical Engineer and Solids Process Lead on this Design-Build-Operate (DBO) 
project. Responsibilities included overall project mechanical discipline coordination. 
Process lead over the solids treatment facilities design which includes direct supervision 
of multiple design engineers. Facility lead for the solids handling facility including gravity 
belt thickening, centrifuge dewatering, sludge pumping, and truck loadout facilities. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Northside Wastewater Treatment plant, Digester 3 and 4 Improvements, City 
of Tulsa, Oklahoma 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2010 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
c. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Responsibilities included overall project mechanical discipline lead. Facility lead over the 
digester facilities including existing digester gas boiler modifications for improved 
digester gas utilization. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Oak Lodge Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrade, Oak Lodge Sanitation 
District, Oregon 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2009 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
d. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Lead Mechanical Engineer and Influent Pump Station Facility Lead responsible for 
overall project mechanical discipline coordination. Facility lead for a 20-mgd raw sewage 
influent pump station and plant drain pump station. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 



 

 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Rock Creek Facility Phase 6A Expansion and Upgrades, Clean Water Services, 
Hillsboro, Oregon 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2003 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
e. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Facility/process lead engineer responsibilities included digester gas flare system 
analysis, aeration blower system capacity analysis and tertiary treatment flocculation 
basin rehabilitation design. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 
 



 

 

E. RESUMES OF KEY PERSONNEL PROPOSED FOR THIS SERVICE CATEGORY  
(Complete one Section E for each key person.) 

12. NAME  

Bryan Youker, P.E. 
13. ROLE IN THIS CONTRACT  

Civil Engineer 
14. YEARS EXPERIENCE  

a. TOTAL 

32 
b. WITH CURRENT FIRM 

32 
15. FIRM NAME AND LOCATION (City and State) 

Jacobs, Corvallis, Oregon 
16. EDUCATION (DEGREE AND SPECIALIZATION) 

M.E./1988/Environmental Systems Engineering  
B.S./1986/Civil Engineering  

17. CURRENT PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION (STATE AND DISCIPLINE) 

Professional Engineer, Oregon (16114), 1993; Washington 
(45708), 2009; Arizona (52424), 2011; Texas (110561), 2012: 
Oklahoma (29914), 2018 

18. OTHER PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS (Publications, Organizations, Training, Awards, etc.) 

Bryan is a senior technologist and design engineer in Jacobs’ Buildings, Infrastructure and Advanced Facilities (BIAF), Engineering 
and Design group in Corvallis, Oregon. He has served as a process mechanical engineer for water and wastewater treatment 
plant design projects for over 30 years. 

19. RELEVANT PROJECTS 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Lahaina Wastewater Reclamation Facility Stage 1A Improvements, County of 
Maui, Hawaii 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2016 

CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable) 

2020 

a. 
(3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

This treatment plant upgrade project includes Aeration Basin, Secondary Clarifier and 
Solids Processing improvements. Bryan provided continuous senior oversight, 
mentoring of junior staff engineer, and QA/QC reviews of milestone delivery sets.  
During construction phase, Bryan has provided submittal reviews and attended 
Witnessed Factory Performance Tests for the aeration blowers which are a single-stage 
centrifugal type manufactured by Howden-Turblex. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 San Jose-Santa Clara WWTP Headworks Project, City of San Jose, California 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

Ongoing 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable)  

b. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Bryan is the Senior Process-Mechanical Engineer and Facility Lead for the preliminary 
treatment program upgrade at the San Jose-Santa Clara WWTP. A new 260 mgd 
Headworks is being designed to operate in parallel with an existing wet weather 
headworks for this 400 mgd advanced treatment plant. The project is being executed as 
a progressive Design-Build project. The new Headworks will consist of three front-
cleaned multi-rake mechanical bar screens, a Raw Sewage Pump Station, and a 
HeadCell-type grit removal system. The facility will incorporate screenings handling and 
grit washing equipment. In addition, the project includes extensive pipe routing and 
interties with existing facilities requiring sequencing, temporary pumping, and 
coordination with existing treatment plant operation. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 San Luis Obispo (SLO) Water Resource Recovery Facility (WRRF) Upgrade 
Project; City of San Luis Obispo, California 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

Ongoing 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
c. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

The SLO WRRF Upgrade Project includes the revision of its current secondary treatment 
system to a 16 mgd Membrane Bioreactor (MBR) System. Bryan has acted in various 
roles throughout the project including senior reviewer and mentor to the facility leads, 
senior technologist to the Membrane Bioreactor (MBR) facility and Primary Effluent 
screening system lead, and lead designer for the MBR, Primary Effluent facility, and 
Blower system. The project includes 2 new bioreactors in addition to the existing 2 
bioreactors, and 6 new membrane basins. The project includes a complex construction 
sequence to construct and test the new primary effluent screens, new bioreactors, and 
new membrane basins prior to retrofitting the existing bioreactors and integrate them 
into a single complete MBR system. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

  



 

 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Haikey Creek Wastewater Treatment Plant Aeration Basin Project; City of 
Tulsa, Oklahoma 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

Ongoing 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
d. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

The Haikey Creek WWTP converted their oxidation ditch-based secondary treatment 
plant to new fine-bubble aeration system. The project involved four new 1.5-MG step-
feed aeration basins with anoxic and aerobic zones, new aeration system including high-
speed turbo blowers, fine-bubble membrane diffusers, and air distribution system, and 
several tie-ins to the existing treatment plant. Bryan led the final design of the aeration 
basins, blower building, and tie-in structures. Bryan also developed conceptual 
construction sequence and outlined the contract documents.  When complete, the 
oxidation ditches will be abandoned and demolished to make space for new primary 
clarifiers. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Northern Treatment Plant, Metro Wastewater Reclamation District, Denver, 
Colorado 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2013 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

2016 
e. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

The Northern Treatment Plant is a new wastewater treatment facility capable of 
treating wastewater flows up to a peak flow of 51 mgd. During initial design, served as a 
Quality Control reviewer of milestone deliverables, and provided senior technologist 
input and continuous quality control for the Influent Pumping and Headworks facility 
including raw sewage pumping, screenings and screenings handling equipment, grit 
removal and grit handing equipment, and odor control; the Primary Clarification process 
including clarifiers, primary influent flow splitting, and primary sludge and scum 
pumping; the Secondary Treatment process including conventional activated sludge 
aeration basins with anoxic zone mixing, and fine bubble aeration, blower building with 
high-speed turbo blowers, secondary clarifiers, and the RAS/WAS Sludge Pump Station; 
and the Chemical Building. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 
 



 

 

E. RESUMES OF KEY PERSONNEL PROPOSED FOR THIS SERVICE CATEGORY  
(Complete one Section E for each key person.) 

12. NAME  

Jennifer Chang, P.E. 
13. ROLE IN THIS CONTRACT  

Process Engineer 
14. YEARS EXPERIENCE  

a. TOTAL 

19 
b. WITH CURRENT FIRM 

19 
15. FIRM NAME AND LOCATION (City and State) 

Jacobs, Corvallis, Oregon 
16. EDUCATION (DEGREE AND SPECIALIZATION) 

M.S./2000/Civil Engineering 
B.S./1999/Civil Engineering 

17. CURRENT PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION (STATE AND DISCIPLINE) 

Professional Engineer, Oregon (74674PE), Hawaii (PE-17135), 
Idaho (P-18723) 

18. OTHER PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS (Publications, Organizations, Training, Awards, etc.) 

Jennifer is a wastewater and water process engineer at Jacobs. She has 19 years of experience working on a variety of projects 
that have focused on municipal water and wastewater facility operations, as well as hydraulic modelling. 

19. RELEVANT PROJECTS 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Lahaina Wastewater Treatment Plant Stage 1A Improvements, County of 
Maui, Hawaii 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2020 

CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable)  

a. 
(3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Process lead for liquids process and facility lead for new and existing bioreactors to 
achieve secondary treatment requirements for average annual design capacity of 9 mgd. 
Use of step-feed into bioreactors with instrumentation to achieve simultaneous 
nitrification/denitrification with optimized dissolved oxygen control. Continued process 
lead activities during construction and startup, including coordination with contractor, 
commissioning activities, and onsite support. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Rock Creek Disinfection Alternatives Project, Clean Water Services, 
Washington County, Oregon 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

Ongoing 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable)  

b. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Process Engineer and Assistant Project Manager for the disinfection study. Developed 
protocols for bench-scale and pilot-scale testing of preformed monochloramine 
disinfection, provided technical support and data analysis during testing, determined 
capacity analysis of existing disinfection facilities and develop recommendation memo 
for disinfection at the Rock Creek WWTF.  

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Lander Street Wastewater Reclamation Facility, Boise, Idaho 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

Ongoing 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
c. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Facility lead for new UV disinfection system to replace existing MPHO UV system for 
average annual design capacity of 13 mgd and a maximum flow of 25.5 mgd with 
considerations for future Class A reuse. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
San Luis Obispo Wastewater Reclamation Facility, San Luis Obispo, California PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

Ongoing 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
d. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Facility lead for new UV disinfection system and retrofit flow equalization for average 
annual design capacity of 6.1 mgd and a maximum flow of 16 mgd with considerations 
for future potable reuse. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Grants Pass Wastewater Plant, Grants Pass, Oregon PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2019 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
e. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Facility lead for new aeration basin and blower building to increase secondary treatment 
capacity to 20.8 mgd. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 



 

 

E. RESUMES OF KEY PERSONNEL PROPOSED FOR THIS SERVICE CATEGORY  
(Complete one Section E for each key person.) 

12. NAME  

Stephanie McGregor, P.E. 
13. ROLE IN THIS CONTRACT  

Instrumentation & Controls (I&C) Engineer 
14. YEARS EXPERIENCE  

a. TOTAL 

7 
b. WITH CURRENT FIRM 

7 
15. FIRM NAME AND LOCATION (City and State) 

Jacobs, Portland, Oregon 
16. EDUCATION (DEGREE AND SPECIALIZATION) 

B.S./2013/Bioprocess Engineering  
17. CURRENT PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION (STATE AND DISCIPLINE) 

Professional Engineer, Oregon (87419PE) 
18. OTHER PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS (Publications, Organizations, Training, Awards, etc.) 

Stephanie brings seven years of experience with I&C design, dynamic simulation, programming and commissioning of water and 
wastewater facilities. 

19. RELEVANT PROJECTS 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Lahaina Wastewater Reclamation Facility Stage 1A Improvements, County of 
Maui, Hawaii 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2018 

CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable) 

2020 

a. 
(3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Stephanie led the controls workshops with the client, developed the Rockwell code and 
FactoryTalk screens and commissioned the control system on site. She provided 
operator and technician training on the new control system. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Woodland-Davis Regional Water Treatment Facility, Woodland Davis Clean 
Water Agency, Woodland, California 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2013 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

2016 
b. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Stephanie was involved in the design, programming and commissioning of the 
Woodland Davis Regional Water Treatment Facility. She programmed the PLC and HMI 
and performed on site commissioning. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Winneke Water Treatment Plant, Melbourne Water, Australia 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2017 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

NA 
c. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Stephanie developed a dynamic simulation model to test the new filter control strategy. 
She coordinated PLC logic changes with plant’s integrator to stabilize filter flow. This 
project won an Environmental Business International award for technology merit. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
San Jose-Santa Clara Regional Wastewater Facility, City of San Jose, California PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2020 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
d. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Stephanie developed a dynamic simulation model to optimize the City of San Jose 
Headworks pump station control strategy.  

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Good Year Water Treatment Facility, City of Goodyear, Arizona PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

Ongoing 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

Ongoing 
e. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Stephanie is currently leading the software integration team for the City of Goodyear 
PLC programming. She will provide on-site commissioning services of the control system 
next year.  

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 
 



 

 

E. RESUMES OF KEY PERSONNEL PROPOSED FOR THIS SERVICE CATEGORY  
(Complete one Section E for each key person.) 

12. NAME  

Lionel Wood, P.E. 
13. ROLE IN THIS CONTRACT  

Senior Control System Engineer 
14. YEARS EXPERIENCE  

a. TOTAL 

35 
b. WITH CURRENT FIRM 

34 
15. FIRM NAME AND LOCATION (City and State) 

Jacobs, Corvallis, Oregon 
16. EDUCATION (DEGREE AND SPECIALIZATION) 

B.S./Chemical Engineering 
17. CURRENT PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION (STATE AND DISCIPLINE) 

Professional Engineer, Oregon (16112); Washington (32661) 
18. OTHER PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS (Publications, Organizations, Training, Awards, etc.) 

Lionel is a senior control system project manager, senior control system lead engineer, and senior control system QC engineer. 
He has extensive experience in all project phases of control systems implementation. His experience includes project 
management, design, software, and commissioning of control systems. Lionel is experienced with Allen-Bradley ControLogix 
PLCs, and Rockwell Automation FactoryTalk View SE, Intellution iFix, and Wonderware InTouch HMI. 

19. RELEVANT PROJECTS 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Lahaina Wastewater Reclamation Facility Phase 1A Project, County of Maui, 
Lahaina, Hawaii 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2016 

CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable) 

2020 

a. 
(3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Lead Control System Engineer for design, software development, and commissioning for 
the wastewater treatment plant expansion project. Design completion in 2016 with 
commissioning completed in 2020. Project includes aeration basin DO control and 
aeration blower controls with redundant Allen-Bradley ControLogix PLC’s, FactoryTalk 
View SE HMI.   

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 EWEB Aquatic Management Plan (AMP) Project, and Carmen Powerhouse (CP) 
Project, Oregon 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2013 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable)  

b. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Lead Control System Engineer responsible for design of AMP and project to add fish 
ladder and fish screen and CP project to refurbish the 50 MW hydro turbine generators 
and balance of plant equipment. Project includes Allen-Bradley ControLogix PLC’s and 
Owner furnished Rockwell Automation RSView. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Southeast WPCP Biosolids Digester Facilities Project, San Francisco Public 
Utilities Commission (SFPUC), California 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

On Going 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
c. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Lead Control System Engineer for the large multi-firm consulting engineering team.   
Project includes design of Emerson Ovation Distributed Control System (DCS) control 
system that will interface with existing Southeast WPCP DCS, and in conjunction with an 
SFPUC DCS Upgrade Project that will replace the existing DCS with an Emerson Ovation 
DCS, PROFIBUS instrumentation, and Intelligent MCCs. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Davis Woodland Water Supply Project, Woodland, California PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2014 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

2016 
d. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Lead Control System Engineer responsible for design-build-operator (DBO) water 
treatment plant project. Design completion in October of 2014. Project includes 
redundant Allen-Bradley ControLogix PLC’s, FactoryTalk View SE HMI. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

  



 

 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Teck Coal, Fording River Operations Pilot Plant Project, Elkford, British 
Columbia 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2013 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

2013 
e. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Lead Control System Engineer responsible for the design of an industrial water 
treatment pilot plant project. Design completed in the spring of 2013 and 
commissioning during the fall of 2013. Project included redundant Allen-Bradley 
ControLogix PLC’s, FactoryTalk View SE HMI. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 
 



 

 

E. RESUMES OF KEY PERSONNEL PROPOSED FOR THIS SERVICE CATEGORY  
(Complete one Section E for each key person.) 

12. NAME  

Scott Cowden, P.E. 
13. ROLE IN THIS CONTRACT  

Odor Control Technologist 
14. YEARS EXPERIENCE  

a. TOTAL 

32 
b. WITH CURRENT FIRM 

23 
15. FIRM NAME AND LOCATION (City and State) 

Jacobs, Corvallis, Oregon 
16. EDUCATION (DEGREE AND SPECIALIZATION) 

B.S./1986/Mechanical Engineering 
17. CURRENT PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION (STATE AND DISCIPLINE) 

Professional Engineer, California, 1993 (M29146); Minnesota, 
2002 (40642); Oregon (84296PE); Washington (45727) 

18. OTHER PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS (Publications, Organizations, Training, Awards, etc.) 

Scott is a mechanical engineer with extensive experience in process mechanical systems; odor control systems; HVAC; plumbing; 
and fire protection involving mechanical design, QA/QC, life cycle cost evaluations, specification writing, cost estimating, and 
construction administration. Other experience includes digester gas systems, cryogenic systems, and compressed air systems. 
This work has been for a variety of building types, including wastewater treatment plant facilities, office buildings, computer 
rooms, and laboratories. 

19. RELEVANT PROJECTS 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Lahaina WWRF Odor Control Project, County of Maui, Lahaina, Hawaii 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2019 

CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable)  

a. 
(3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Senior technologist for the Lahaina Wastewater Reclamation Facility Odor Control 
Project. The Preliminary Engineering Report evaluated different alternatives for 
managing and controlling odors at the plant. Proposed alternative configurations 
included an array of treatment technologies which included chemical scrubbers, carbon 
absorbers, organic biofilters, engineered media biofilters, biological packed bed 
scrubbers, and a Hydroxyl Radical Odor Control System. The proposed alternatives were 
compared based on their cost versus odor treatment level to determine which 
alternative provides the most value in terms 
of benefit-to-cost. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Waianae WWTP Improvements and Upgrade, City and County of Honolulu, 
Waianae, Hawaii 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

Ongoing 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable)  

b. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Lead Odor Control Engineer for the design of a new odor control facility for enclosed 
structures at primary clarification. Project includes structural rehabilitation and 
replacement of major process equipment at headworks and primary clarification. 
Involved with preparation of design plans, specifications, and cost estimate for 
headworks, primary clarification, effluent monitoring, and utility water pumping and 
distribution. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Odor Control Optimization Project, Oceanside WWTP (OSP), SFPUC, San 
Francisco, California 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

Ongoing 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
c. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Lead Odor Control Engineer for the implementation of odor control mitigation measures 
for improving removal performance while reducing overall energy consumption at the 
Oceanside WWTP (OSP). Currently, the plant operates duel bed carbon vessels that 
consume approximately 50 percent of the entire energy demand of the treatment plant. 
New systems will reduce energy consumption while meeting strict offsite odor goals. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Air Flow Management and Odor Control Study, Metro Wastewater 
Reclamation District, Denver, Colorado 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2013 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
d. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Updated previous comprehensive odor control masterplan for Metro Denver by 
evaluating both the Robert W. Hite Treatment Facility (RWHTF) and the entire sewer 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 



 

 

Transmission System with regards to odor generation and mitigation. Project included 
extensive sampling, odor dispersion modeling, collection system monitoring, in situ fan 
de pressurization testing, collection system modeling using WATS (Wastewater 
Aerobic/Anaerobic Transformations in Sewers), and technology evaluation and 
alternatives development and costing. Odor control projects were developed to help the 
District meet their Strategic Plan objectives. 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Agua Nueva WRF, Pima County, Arizona PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2013 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

2013 
e. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Lead odor control engineer for design of an engineered media biofilter system and 
carbon adsorption system. Biofilter design was unique in that the biofilter infrastructure 
was designed around a proprietary engineered media as opposed to using a more costly 
packaged system approach. Carbon system was designed to serve the bioreactor basins, 
which typically exhibit lower odor emissions. Design was intended to meet strict offsite 
odor goals. A sophisticated odor monitoring system with multiple Enoses was also 
included in the design. Agua Nueva uses dissolved air flotation for primary clarification 
at the beginning of the liquids train, rather than in solids—creating a highly compact 
treatment process with improved nutrient removal. The world’s first such large scale 
application, this arrangement combines grit removal, flocculation, solids liquid 
separation, and solids thickening into a single step, providing an already thickened 
sludge ready for processing at significantly reduced costs. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 
 



 

 

E. RESUMES OF KEY PERSONNEL PROPOSED FOR THIS SERVICE CATEGORY  
(Complete one Section E for each key person.) 

12. NAME  

Alexander Demith 
13. ROLE IN THIS CONTRACT  

Mechanical Engineer 
14. YEARS EXPERIENCE  

a. TOTAL 

8 
b. WITH CURRENT FIRM 

8 
15. FIRM NAME AND LOCATION (City and State) 

Jacobs, Corvallis, Oregon 
16. EDUCATION (DEGREE AND SPECIALIZATION) 

B.S./2012/Mechanical Engineering 
17. CURRENT PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION (STATE AND DISCIPLINE) 

N/A 
18. OTHER PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS (Publications, Organizations, Training, Awards, etc.) 

Alex Demith is a mechanical engineer with experience in process mechanical systems, odor control systems, involving mechanical 
design, life cycle cost evaluations, dispersion modeling, INTERCEPTOR modeling, WATS Modeling, depressurization testing, field 
sampling, performance testing, specification writing, and cost estimating. Other experience includes operation and preventative 
maintenance of conventional water filtration plants. 

19. RELEVANT PROJECTS 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Lahaina WWRF Odor Control Project, County of Maui, Hawaii 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2016 

CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable)  

a. 
(3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Odor control design engineer for design of a 9,000 cubic feet per minute (CFM) bio-
trickling filter odor control system to control odors in the Headworks. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Bio-trickling Filter Design, Waianae Wastewater Treatment Plant, Waianae, 
Hawaii 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2019 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable)  

b. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Lead odor control design engineer for design of 1,800 CFM bio-trickling filter odor 
control system to control odors from the primary clarifiers effluent launders, scum pits 
and influent/effluent distribution chambers. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Solids Facility Odor Control, Bureau of Environmental Services, Portland, 
Oregon 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

Ongoing 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
c. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Lead Engineer/Designer for this project which consists of design of temporary (3-4 year) 
36,000 activated carbon odor control system to replace existing odor control and 
remove odors in the existing solids facility and a permanent 30,000 CFM engineered 
bio-filter to remove odors for the new solids facility. Project tasks included the following 

• Evaluation of the solids facility odors which included sampling, dispersion 
modeling, and technology evaluation. 

• Sizing and locating each odor control system. 
• Development of specifications and design drawings. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Odor/Corrosion Study, Salt Lake Public Utilities, Salt Lake City, Utah PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2020 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
d. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Lead Engineer/Modeler/Designer for this project which consists of extensive collection 
system sampling and analyses, technology evaluation and selection for both vapor 
phase and liquid phase technologies. Analysis includes building a WATS powered by 
INTERCEPTOR model for the entire collection system.  

• Liquid and Vapor Phase sampling was conducted at over 30 locations. 
• WATS model included for all pipes in Salt Lake City ranging from 12 to 72 

inches in diameter. 
• Depressurization testing using 10,000 CFM mobile carbon adsorption system. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 



 

 

• Cost analysis and pre-design of three 1,000 to 10,000 CFM remote odor control 
systems coupled with pre-design of multiple liquid phase dosing systems 
throughout the collection system. 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Airflow Management and Odor Control Study, Metro Wastewater 
Reclamation District, Denver 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2018 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
e. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Lead Engineer/Modeler for this project which consists of extensive collection system 
sampling and analyses, technology evaluation and selection for both vapor phase and 
liquid phase technologies. Analysis included WATS powered by INTERCEPTOR modeling 
for the entire collection system. Air Dispersion modeling and Depressurization testing 
were conducted to verify results of WATS model.  

• Liquid and Vapor Phase sampling was conducted at over 30 locations. 
• WATS modeling was included over 15 sub basins all with pipes ranging from 12 

to 72 inches in diameter. 
• Depressurization testing was conducting at 4 locations using 10,000 CFM 

portable Odor Control Unit. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 
 



 

 

E. RESUMES OF KEY PERSONNEL PROPOSED FOR THIS SERVICE CATEGORY 
(Complete one Section E for each key person.) 

12. NAME 

Larry Schimmoller, P.E., PMP 
13. ROLE IN THIS CONTRACT 

Principal Water Reuse Technologist 
14. YEARS EXPERIENCE 

a. TOTAL 

33 
b. WITH CURRENT FIRM 

28 
15. FIRM NAME AND LOCATION (City and State) 

Jacobs, Englewood, Colorado 
16. EDUCATION (DEGREE AND SPECIALIZATION) 

M.S./1995/Environmental Engineering 
B.S./1991/Civil Engineering 

17. CURRENT PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION (STATE AND DISCIPLINE) 

Professional Engineer: Colorado (32335); Virginia (0402029956) 

18. OTHER PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS (Publications, Organizations, Training, Awards, etc.) 

Larry is a vice president, senior project manager, and senior principal technologist in Jacobs’ water business group. He is also 
Jacobs’ Global Technology Leader for water reuse. Larry has extensive experience in the planning, piloting, process selection, 
design, and construction of water, wastewater, and water reuse treatment projects. He is a proven project manager and has a 
track record of delivering high-quality projects on time and at or under budget. Larry is a member of the WateReuse Research 
Foundation’s Research Advisory Committee which develops the multi-million-dollar research agenda for this international 
organization. He has also served as Principal Investigator for multiple water reuse research projects and has authored and 
presented numerous papers at regional, national, and international water reuse conferences and publications. 

19. RELEVANT PROJECTS 
 
 
 
 
 

a. 

(1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

Feasibility Study for Direct Potable Reuse, Sao Paulo, Brazil PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 
2015 

CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable) 

(3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Senior technical consultant for the evaluation of a direct potable reuse scheme in Sao 
Paulo, Brazil to alleviate severe water shortages being experienced in the city due to 
record droughts. Developed a wastewater and advanced water treatment process to 
produce purified water for blending directly into the city’s distribution system via an 
existing distribution pipe. Consulted with City staff on a myriad of technical issues, 
including wastewater source control, pathogen and trace organics removal 
requirements, water quality sampling, advanced treatment technologies, blending 
requirements, and public outreach and education. 

 Check if project performed with 
current firm 

 
 
 
 
 

b. 

(1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

Denver Water Potable Reuse Feasibility Study, Denver, Colorado PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 
2015 

CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable) 

(3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Senior technical consultant for this project that developed potable reuse schemes for 
reclaiming 20 to 60 mgd of water from the South Platte River, developed water quality 
and treatment goals and objectives with Denver Water, and developed treatment 
scenarios and cost estimates for each scenario. Also produced a summary document of 
the water quality considerations and treatment options. 

 Check if project performed with 
current firm 

 
 
 
 
 

c. 

(1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

Western Corridor Recycled Water Project, Brisbane, Australia PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 
2011 

CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable) 

(3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Senior process engineer for the design, construction, and commissioning of the 20 -mgd 
Luggage Point Advanced Water Treatment Plant (AWTP). Plant treatment processes 
include flocculation and sedimentation for phosphorus removal, microfiltration, reverse 
osmosis, and ultraviolet (UV)—advanced oxidation with hydrogen peroxide addition. He 
also served as senior process engineer for extensive piloting conducted prior to and 
during design that provided critical information related to the advanced treatment 
processes. The Luggage Point AWTP is part of the Western Corridor Recycled Water 
Project, a multi-billion-dollar project. This project, in association with the Western 
Corridor Recycled Water Project, won the GWI 2009 Water Reuse Project of the Year. 

 Check if project performed with 
current firm 



 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

d 

(1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

Prairie Waters Project, Aurora Water, Aurora, Colorado PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 
2010 

CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable) 

(3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Quality control manager for design of the $80M natural purification system and $200M 
Aurora Reservoir Water Purification Facility (ARWPF). The natural purification system 
incorporates riverbank filtration and soil aquifer treatment for the reduction of nitrates, 
pathogens, and micro pollutants. Further treatment is provided at ARWPF through 
softening, advanced ultraviolet oxidation, biologically active filtration, and granular 
activated carbon adsorption. 

 Check if project performed with 
current firm 

 
 
 
 
 

e 

(1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

WateReuse Research Foundation Project 13‐09: Indirect Potable Reuse 
Investigation, Tucson, Arizona 

PROFESSIONAL 
SERVICES 

2016 

CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable) 

(3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

To meet the water needs of the greater Tucson Metropolitan area, Tucson Water is 
exploring the concept of indirect potable reuse to diversify and expand their water 
supply portfolio. Larry is part of the team, which includes Tucson Water, University of 
Arizona, and Jacobs, who are collaborating to pilot test the effectiveness of soil aquifer 
treatment, nanofiltration membranes, ozone, and biologically active carbon filtration for 
potable reuse. The team is conducting water quality sampling and operational 
testing during this 6-month pilot to evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed 
treatment scheme, which will advance the science of potable reuse treatment, 
especially for inland utilities struggling with reverse osmosis concentrate disposal 
problems. 

 Check if project performed with 
current firm 

 



 

 

E. RESUMES OF KEY PERSONNEL PROPOSED FOR THIS SERVICE CATEGORY  
(Complete one Section E for each key person.) 

12. NAME  

Alex Firth, P.E., LEED AP 
13. ROLE IN THIS CONTRACT  

Structural Engineer 
14. YEARS EXPERIENCE  

a. TOTAL 

34 
b. WITH CURRENT FIRM 

34 
15. FIRM NAME AND LOCATION (City and State) 

Jacobs, Corvallis, Oregon 
16. EDUCATION (DEGREE AND SPECIALIZATION) 

B.S./1986/Civil Engineering  
Graduate Studies/Structural Engineering 

17. CURRENT PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION (STATE AND DISCIPLINE) 

Professional Engineer, Hawaii (PE-16749), 2015; Oregon (15977), 
1992 
U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC): LEED Accredited 
Professional (46999) 

18. OTHER PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS (Publications, Organizations, Training, Awards, etc.) 

Alex is a structural engineer with Jacobs Water Business Group in Corvallis, Oregon. He has worked on a variety of structural 
projects, including water and wastewater treatment plants, Industrial facilities, resident construction inspection, and bridge 
inspection. He is also the firm's source matter expert in the structural engineering aspects of anti-terrorism and force protection 
(AT/FP) design and has completed assessments of four overseas U.S. Air Force Bases to determine their compliance with federal 
AT/FP standards. 

19. RELEVANT PROJECTS 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Goodyear Water Treatment Facility, City of Goodyear 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

Ongoing 

CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable)  

a. 
(3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Lead structural engineer for a new, greenfield 8 mgd water treatment project. Project 
included multiple concrete treatment basins and the associated treatment facilities. The 
project also included the design of an operations building. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 North Texas Water District, Leonard Texas Water Treatment Project 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

Ongoing 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable)  

b. Lead structural engineer for a new, greenfield 75 mgd water treatment project. 
Project included the design of multiple, large concrete treatment basins including 
pre-treatment, ozone, filtration, and chlorine contact/clearwell. The design also 
included all the supporting chemical and treatment buildings including 
operations, maintenance and a warehouse facility. Two of the facilities were 
designed for improved performance for tornado loads. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Agua Nueva Water Reclamation Facility, Pima County, Arizona 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

Ongoing 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
c. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Project includes design and construction of a new 24-mgd, $158-million water 
reclamation facility for seven separate facilities, as well as pipeline, basins, and tanks. 
Scope includes innovative treatment process uses DAF clarification and 5-stage 
Bardenpho, enhanced with step-feed capabilities. This process is then followed by deep 
tanks 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Changi Water Reclamation Plant; Republic of Singapore  PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2000 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
d. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Lead structural engineer for the design of a 210-mgd wastewater treatment and 
reclamation plant for the Republic of Singapore. The design produced 23 separate 
contract packages consisting of three, large diameter, deep concrete shafts; 
above-grade influent pump station complex; headworks facility; large liquids 
treatment facility; solids treatment facility; a digester facility consisting of five 
modified egg-shape digesters; a major electrical building; and an operations and 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 



 

 

maintenance facility. All of the facilities were designed to local Singapore building 
codes in conjunction with internal CH2M HILL design standards. Responsible for 
overall management of the structural engineering effort and development of the 
structural three-dimensional/database delivery strategy. Managed the structural 
engineering design team in Corvallis, Oregon, and coordinated efforts among 
structural design staff in Corvallis, Toronto, and Singapore. 

 
 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Robindale Wastewater Treatment Plant Renovation and Expansion, 
Brownsville Public Utilities Board, Brownsville, Texas 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2012 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
e. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Led the structural design for a $32 million design-build project, the first municipal 
design-build project in Texas. The project expands the plant’s treatment capacity from 
10 million gallons per day (mgd) to 14 mgd. The project also includes a retrofit of 
existing facilities to support Modified Ludzack-Ettinger (MLE) treatment process. 
Pretreatment headworks features fine screens, Eutek Headcell grit removal, and 
screenings sluice and compactor system. UV disinfection facility features of two 
channels with low pressure, high intensity UV lamps in horizontal configuration. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 
 
 



 

 

E. RESUMES OF KEY PERSONNEL PROPOSED FOR THIS SERVICE CATEGORY  
(Complete one Section E for each key person.) 

12. NAME  

Katrina Pearson, P.E., S.E., LEED AP 
13. ROLE IN THIS CONTRACT  

Structural Engineer 
14. YEARS EXPERIENCE  

a. TOTAL 

16 
b. WITH CURRENT FIRM 

12 
15. FIRM NAME AND LOCATION (City and State) 

Jacobs, Corvallis, Oregon 
16. EDUCATION (DEGREE AND SPECIALIZATION) 

B.S./2004/Architectural Engineering  
17. CURRENT PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION (STATE AND DISCIPLINE) 

Structural Engineer, Alaska (14021), 2021 
Professional Engineer, Alaska (12509), 2010-2021; California 
(73811) 2009-2021; Oregon (83054), 2009-2020; Washington 
(47890), 2011-2022 
LEED® AP, USGBC, 2006 

18. OTHER PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS (Publications, Organizations, Training, Awards, etc.) 

Katrina is part of Jacobs’ Advanced Facilities & US Federal Solutions group. She has extensive experience working across delivery 
units to serve our clients, including work with water and wastewater treatment, industrial, commercial, and energy and 
chemicals. Katrina specializes in advanced areas of structural engineering including seismic design, structural rehabilitation and 
security engineering. Her experience includes design using reinforced concrete, masonry, timber, structural steel, cold-formed 
steel, and structural glass. She has experience in structural design of a diverse range of federal government facilities, including 
courthouses, large-scale family housing, maintenance facilities, hangars, training centers, clean rooms and data centers. Katrina 
has provided structural engineering for a wide range of private sector projects, including low income housing, high profile 
religious facilities, public and private educational facilities, adaptive re-use and restoration of historic structures.   

19. RELEVANT PROJECTS 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 F4227 FNMOC Bld 700 Upgrades, NAVFAC Southwest/NAVIFOR, Monterey, 
California 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

Ongoing 

CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable)  

a. 
(3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Performed structural engineering, specifications and quality reviews for retrofit 
schemes and construction sequencing associated with equipment access and structure 
modifications for a retrofit of an existing facility to accommodate a power upgrade. 
Served as the Design Manager to work with other disciplines to assist with coordination 
issues and value engineering considerations. Provided input on seismic anchorage and 
bracing as well as Special Inspection considerations. Provided support during 
construction, including shop drawing review and RFI responses.   

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 National AEI Services for Anchorage Federal Buildings Non-Structural 
Component Seismic Bracing Evaluation and Study, Anchorage, Alaska 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2020 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

Ongoing 
b. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

In response to the November 2018 Anchorage Earthquake, Jacobs deployed a team 
comprising structural engineers, an Architect, a cost estimator, and a historic 
preservation expert to inspect damaged structural and non-structural components of 
three General Service Administration (GSA) buildings, including one building registered 
on the National Register of Historic Places. The buildings contained multiple Federal 
tenants, including active Federal Courtrooms. Assisted in project proposal development. 
Lead the post-earthquake inspection of the Anchorage Historic Federal Building. 
Assisted in inspecting the Federal Annex and James Fitzgerald Federal Building. Prepared 
damage assessment reports. Developed scopes of work and bridging document for a 
design build contractor. Assisted the cost estimator in developing detailed cost 
estimates. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

  



 

 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Grace Hopper Data Center Power Upgrade, NAVFAC Southwest, Navy Base 
Coronado, CA,  

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2019 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

Ongoing  
c. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Performed structural engineering design, specifications and quality reviews for retrofit 
schemes and construction sequencing associated with equipment access and structure 
modifications. During construction, provided quality assurance and submittal reviews to 
confirm requirements for seismic-resistant equipment and distribution systems were 
applied correctly. Performed structural analysis, design, and specification for a retrofit 
of an existing facility to accommodate a power upgrade. Worked with other disciplines 
to assist with coordination issues and value engineering considerations. Provided input 
on seismic anchorage and bracing as well as Special Inspection considerations. Provided 
support during construction, including shop drawing review and RFI responses.   

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Air Mobility Command (AMC) Headquarters Renovation, US Air Force, Scott 
AFB, Illinois  

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2018 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

2020 
d. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Quality control reviewer for full D-B-B documentation to modernize a 40-year-old Four 
Star Command and Control Headquarters Facility including structural, seismic and 
antiterrorism upgrades, HVAC, plumbing, electrical, life safety, fire protection, 
telecommunications/IT, security systems and interior finishes. Performed quality control 
for calculations related to the structural design. Led efforts to verify compliance with 
UFC 3-301-01. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
JBER Post-Earthquake Evaluation, US Air Force, Anchorage, Alaska PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2019 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

Ongoing 
e. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

In response to the November 2018 Anchorage Earthquake, Jacobs deployed two teams 
of structural engineers for on-site evaluation of damage to structural and non-structural 
components. Damage reports were developed into design-build bridging documents. 
Assisted in project proposal development. Lead one of two teams of engineers for post-
earthquake inspections on 21 facilities, including 2 secure facilities. Issued daily reports 
to the client to address critical hazards. Prepared damage assessment reports to 
develop detailed cost estimates. Developed design-build bridging documents for ten of 
the original buildings including written scope of work, concept repair drawings, cost 
estimated, hazmat surveys, and ASCE 41 Tier 1 and 2 evaluations. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 
 



 

 

E. RESUMES OF KEY PERSONNEL PROPOSED FOR THIS SERVICE CATEGORY  
(Complete one Section E for each key person.) 

12. NAME  

Geoffrey Kirsten, RA, AIA, NCARB, 
LEED AP 

13. ROLE IN THIS CONTRACT  

Architect 
14. YEARS EXPERIENCE  

a. TOTAL 

24 
b. WITH CURRENT FIRM 

22 

15. FIRM NAME AND LOCATION (City and State) 

Jacobs, Corvallis, Oregon 
16. EDUCATION (DEGREE AND SPECIALIZATION) 

BAARC/1996/Architecture 
17. CURRENT PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION (STATE AND DISCIPLINE) 

Registered Architect, Hawaii (17245), 2016; Oregon (5141), 2006; 
Washington (9500), 2008; Nevada (6358), 2009; Colorado 
(401829), 2009; California (C33068), 2011; Utah (10090684-
0301), 2016; Texas (26787), 2017; Arizona (71558), 2020  
National Council of Architectural Registration Boards (NCARB); 
Certified (2007, No. 62354) 
Accredited Professional: Leadership in Energy and Environmental 
Design (LEED®); 2004 
Accredited Professional: Leadership in Energy and Environmental 
Design (LEED®) BD&C; 2011 

18. OTHER PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS (Publications, Organizations, Training, Awards, etc.) 

Geoff is an architect with more than 22 years of experience. He has worked throughout the United States on projects including 
municipal water and wastewater treatment plants, military facilities, and educational facilities. As a senior project architect, his 
architectural responsibilities include report preparation, design, specification production, project coordination, quality control 
and services during construction. He is experienced in coordinating projects that involve many disciplines, including structural, 
mechanical, electrical, HVAC, plumbing, instrumentation and control, and landscape architecture. He is experienced with 
industrial building design including design for hazardous occupancies. Geoff is currently the Deputy Group Leader, for the 
architectural discipline in Corvallis, and is responsible for technology, scheduling, staffing, and administrative issues. 

19. RELEVANT PROJECTS 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Water Resource Recovery Facility Project, City of San Luis Obispo, San Luis 
Obispo, California 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2019 

CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable) 

Ongoing 

a. 
(3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Architectural scope of work included new process support buildings and structures and 
quality control review of a sub-consultant for a new water resource center. The 
architectural design satisfied architectural review board requirements. Responsible for 
concept design, design development, construction documents and services during 
construction. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Temecula Valley Regional Water Reclamation Facility 23 MDG Expansion; 
Eastern Municipal Water District, Temecula, California 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2017 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

2019 
b. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Architectural scope of work included three new buildings: Blower Building and Electrical 
Building. The new structures consisted primarily of load-bearing masonry walls with 
single-ply membrane roofing over steel roof framing. Responsible for concept design, 
design development, construction documents and services during construction. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 3Kings Water Treatment Plant, Park City Municipal Corporation, Park City, 
Utah 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2020 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

Ongoing 
c. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Architectural scope of work included replacement of an existing water treatment plant 
that was embedded in the Park City Municipal Golf Course and directly adjacent to 
restaurants and shops. The new plant consisted of eight new buildings housing functions 
that included operations and maintenance, process and pumping, electrical equipment, 
and chemical storage that were organized to fit between two holes of the golf course.  
The architectural treatment for the project sought to reflect the local mountain resort 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 



 

 

and traditional mining influences.  The visual treatment of the buildings and the 
associated landscaping was carefully selected to address stringent architectural review 
board requirements. Responsible for concept design, design development, construction 
documents and services during construction. 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Northern Treatment Plant, Metro Wastewater Reclamation District (Design-
Build), Denver, Colorado 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2014 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

2016 
d. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Architectural scope of work included more than 20 new buildings. Most of new 
structure consisted of load-bearing masonry or concrete walls with brick veneer with 
single-ply membrane roofing over steel roof framing. Responsible for concept design, 
design development, construction documents and services during construction. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Camp Pendleton Advanced Water Treatment Plant (Design-Build), NAVFAC 
Southwest, Marine Corps Base Camp Pendleton, San Diego County, California 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2013 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

2020 
e. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Provided quality control review for architectural and LEED scope of work that included 
four new buildings: Operations, Chemical Storage, Reverse Osmosis, and Plant Pump 
Station. The new structures consisted primarily of load-bearing masonry walls with 
sheet metal roofing over steel roof framing. The project targeted LEED® Silver 
certification. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 
 



 

 

E. RESUMES OF KEY PERSONNEL PROPOSED FOR THIS SERVICE CATEGORY  
(Complete one Section E for each key person.) 

12. NAME  

Ryan Harbert, P.E., LEED AP 
13. ROLE IN THIS CONTRACT  

Electrical Designer 
14. YEARS EXPERIENCE  

a. TOTAL 

18 
b. WITH CURRENT FIRM 

18 
15. FIRM NAME AND LOCATION (City and State) 

Jacobs, Corvallis, Oregon 
16. EDUCATION (DEGREE AND SPECIALIZATION) 

B.S./2002/Electrical Engineering  
17. CURRENT PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION (STATE AND DISCIPLINE) 

Professional Engineer, Hawaii (15786), 2016; Oregon (71826PE), 
2007; Maryland (35052), 2007; Rhode Island (10127), 2013; 
Washington (52587), 2015; California (21673), 2016 
LEED Accredited Professional, 2003 (LEED AP™) 

18. OTHER PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS (Publications, Organizations, Training, Awards, etc.) 

Ryan has 18 years of experience working on a variety of projects, including public and private facilities design, water and 
wastewater treatment plants, and lighting systems for airports. He provides detailed electrical design for required facility 
systems with his primary responsibility for delivery of the electrical project work deliverables (drawings, specifications, reports, 
etc). Additionally, Ryan is a technology leader in photovoltaic power systems, including technical specification coordinator for the 
firm’s master specification on grid-tied photovoltaic systems, and completion of North American Board of Certified Energy 
Practitioners certification training for grid-direct solar electric facilities. 

19. RELEVANT PROJECTS 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Lahaina, WWRF Stage 1A Improvements, County of Maui, Lahaina, Hawaii 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2017 

CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable) 

2020 

a. 
(3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Lead electrical engineer for plant expansions and upgrades, including a new electrical 
room and upgrades to existing electrical rooms, lighting systems, support for new and 
existing aeration basin improvements, blower building improvements, solids building 
improvements, new secondary clarifier, and various other plant upgrades.  Provided 
new automated system control to existing standby generator.  Project required close 
coordination with owner and construction staff to develop the design and construct 
improvements while still operating the facility. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Water Resource Recovery Facility Project, City of San Luis Obispo, California 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2020 

CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable)  

b. 
(3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Lead Electrical Engineer for a design project to support the expansion of an existing 
wastewater facility. Project included upgrades to existing plant liquids and solids 
handling facilities, and construction of new UV disinfection, Membrane Bioreactors, and 
effluent cooling towers. Electrical upgrades include new service equipment, medium 
voltage distribution, low voltage distribution, and networkable motor control centers.  
Worked closely with a local controls subconsultant to coordinate electrical design with 
instrumentation and controls. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
North City Water Reclamation Plant Expansion and North City Pure Water 
Facility Influent Pump Station and Pipeline Clean Water Services, San Diego, 
California 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2018 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable)  

c. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Managed and led an electrical design team to support the expansion at this existing 
wastewater facility. Project included four distinct design packages, and work was shared 
with electrical design sub-consultants. Work included four new secondary clarifiers, new 
equalization tank, expanded primary treatment facilities, new and refurbished 
secondary treatment processes, new influent pump station to a new pure water facility 
(pure water facility by others), replacement of all unit substations, provisions for new 
15kV service switchgear, relocation of existing gas fired power generator, and various 
other improvements at almost every process facility onsite. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 



 

 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Renewable Energy Consultant, King County Department of Natural Resources 
and Parks, Water Treatment Division, Washington 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2018 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
d. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Developed multiple conceptual ground photovoltaic array layouts at two County 
wastewater plants including siting considerations, maintenance access, row spacing, 
shading issues, recommended tilt angle for maximum annual energy production, cost 
estimates, power production estimates and electrical interconnection details. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Durham AWWTF Cogeneration and Brown Grease Facilities, Clean Water 
Services, Tigard, Oregon 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2019 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
e. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Performed electrical design for a new Cogeneration Facility and Brown Grease Facility at 
the Durham AWWTF. Cogeneration uses digester and natural gas and is sized to provide 
a majority of plant electricity on an annual basis. Project included new unit substation 
with paralleling switchgear, and all motor control equipment required to support the 
Cogeneration, gas handling, and Brown Grease facility processes. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 



 

 

E. RESUMES OF KEY PERSONNEL PROPOSED FOR THIS SERVICE CATEGORY  
(Complete one Section E for each key person.) 

12. NAME  

Tiana Michaud, P.E. 
13. ROLE IN THIS CONTRACT  

Electrical Engineer 
14. YEARS EXPERIENCE  

a. TOTAL 

11 
b. WITH CURRENT FIRM 

8 
15. FIRM NAME AND LOCATION (City and State) 

Jacobs, Corvallis, Oregon 
16. EDUCATION (DEGREE AND SPECIALIZATION) 

B.S./2009/Electrical and Computer Engineering 
17. CURRENT PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION (STATE AND DISCIPLINE) 

Professional Engineer, Oregon #83208; Washington #52948; 
California #E22654; Nevada #027330 

18. OTHER PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS (Publications, Organizations, Training, Awards, etc.) 

Tiana brings a variety of experience from working in an electric utility that had generation, transmission and industrial retail 
interconnection agreements; along with a background in customer service; and skills in electric distribution design for Jacobs. 
During Tiana’s time at the utility, she was able to touch on several fields of knowledge including SCADA communications, PLCs, 
meters, transformers, contracts, service pricing, and maintenance. Her experience continues with design for water treatment, 
wastewater treatment, and lift stations as well as construction services support post design. Currently, she is designing systems 
including motor control centers, lighting, motor loading, and performing arc flash studies. 

19. RELEVANT PROJECTS 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 San Jose Regional Wastewater Reclamation Facility Headworks, San Jose, 
California 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

Ongoing 

CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable)  

a. 
(3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Led the electrical work for the design of a new 420 mgd headworks 3 facility at the 
existing San Jose wastewater treatment plant. Included medium voltage distribution 
with medium voltage switchgear and relaying. Implementation of medium voltage 
drives for large raw sewage pumps as well as their controls and protection. Design to 
detailed owner standards for spare capacity, raceways, lighting criteria, and 
manufacturer preferences. Attend and present at regular and detailed workshops with 
owner to coordinate design and needs of the owner and site. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Salmon Creek Phase 5B Package 1, Salmon Creek, Washington 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2019 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

Ongoing 
b. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Incorporation of new odor control facilities in existing electrical infrastructure. Included 
design of additional ancillary improvements to existing waste water treatment plant and 
coordination of multiple concurrent projects by Jacobs as well as by others. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Flamingo Water Resource Center Demolition of Retired Facilities, Las Vegas, 
Nevada 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

Ongoing 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
c. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Provided quality control and guidance for electrical work. Work includes, demolition and 
decommissioning of tertiary treatment facilities and unused support facilities on the 
East and West Campuses at the Clark County Water Reclamation District’s Flamingo 
Water Resource Center. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Cutter Lateral Reach 21 Water Treatment Plant and Associated Items, 
Bloomfield, New Mexico 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2020 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

2020 
d. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Resident Engineer providing onsite construction services at remote water treatment 
plant near Bloomfield, New Mexico. Work tasks included coordinating between multiple 
sub-contractors on a Design Build construction project for the Navajo Gallup Water 
Supply. Facilitating construction resolution between sub-contractors and design office. 
Overseeing document management and tracking sub-contractor deliverables during 
construction. Monitor quality of field work and assist in tracking timely construction. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

  



 

 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Spokane Riverside Wastewater Reclamation Facility Phase 2, Spokane, 
Washington 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2018 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

Ongoing 
e. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Led the electrical work for design of a new membrane filtration facility to an existing 
125 mgd wastewater treatment plant. Design included a new membrane filtration 
facility, modifications to existing chemical storage facilities, new diversion structure and 
new pumping stations. Electrical work included lighting design for nearly an acre size 
facility with multiple levels; integration into the existing medium voltage distribution 
loop; upgrade of existing 13.2kV monitoring for increased current capacity; addition of 
3.75MVA unit substations; distribution design for 12 each 250HP pumps; integration of 
radio, public address and fiber systems; design of new and changes to existing motor 
control centers; layout of new duct banks and connecting to existing duct bank system; 
and upgrades in wiring to existing instrumentation in remote locations. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 
 



 

 

E. RESUMES OF KEY PERSONNEL PROPOSED FOR THIS SERVICE CATEGORY  
(Complete one Section E for each key person.) 

12. NAME  

Roger Collette, P.E. 
13. ROLE IN THIS CONTRACT  

Electrical Engineer 
14. YEARS EXPERIENCE  

a. TOTAL 

30 
b. WITH CURRENT FIRM 

25 
15. FIRM NAME AND LOCATION (City and State) 

Jacobs, Corvallis, Oregon 
16. EDUCATION (DEGREE AND SPECIALIZATION) 

B.S./1989/Electrical Engineering 
17. CURRENT PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION (STATE AND DISCIPLINE) 

Professional Engineer, Oregon (61373PE), 2002; Washington 
(40605), 2004  
RAM-W Certified 

18. OTHER PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS (Publications, Organizations, Training, Awards, etc.) 

Roger has 30 years of experience on a variety of large and small projects including wastewater and water treatment plants, 
environmental, aviation, military hangar, high technology, and specialized government facilities. He has been involved in many 
phases of projects, including contract negotiations, project setup, conceptual design, final design, services during construction, 
and contract closeout. Roger has delivered approximately 100 federal projects throughout the U.S. and around the world. He 
specializes in electrical system services for facilities and power distribution systems, from planning through construction. He 
provides design innovations for the development and renovation of complex uninterruptible power supply systems, power 
distribution systems, fire alarm and high-security systems. Roger’s breadth of experience also includes site and utility 
infrastructure analyses, and assessment and design solutions using sustainable technologies. He has successfully delivered 
facilities in Haiti, Mexico, Afghanistan, Iraq, Kuwait, Germany, Italy, United Kingdom, and India. 

19. RELEVANT PROJECTS 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Mission Critical Design-Build Services, Pacific Air Operations Center, Hawaii Air 
National Guard, Hickam Air Force Base (AFB), Hawaii 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2006 

CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable) 

2006 

a. 
(3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Responsible for QC of electrical design elements for the fast-track D-B renovation of a 
66,000-SF Air Operations Center, and conversion of historic Hangar 3 into a state-of-the-
art Command and Control Center for all of the USAF PACAF forces theatre-wide. 
Provided the designer of record with technical support by incorporating lessons learned 
from past high security projects, as well as providing real time QA/QC for the electrical 
components for this renovation. Specific areas of support included defining the 
construction requirements for the Sensitive Compartmentalized Information Facility 
areas. Cost: $20.8 million (construction) 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 C-17 Corrosion Control/Maintenance Hangar; Hickam AFB, Honolulu, Hawaii 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2003 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable)  

b. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Served as technical specialist and advised the electrical designer how to mitigate the 
hazardous classifications in the hangar bay as well as other hangar related electrical 
issues. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Rock Creek Advanced Wastewater Treatment Facility, Hillsboro, Oregon 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2000 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
c. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Electrical designer for the Phase 3 design, upgrading the plant from 15 million gallons 
per day (mgd) to 32 mgd (this work was done in three phases beginning in 1988 for a 
total construction cost of $50 million). 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Centralia Wastewater Treatment Plant, Centralia, Washington PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2003 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

2003 
d. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Lead electrical engineer for the new plant. The electrical distribution system is rated for 
1.8 megavolt-amperes with provisions for future site expansion. Total estimated 
construction costs are $17 million. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 



 

 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Troutdale Water Pollution Control Facility, Troutdale, Oregon PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2001 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

2001 
e. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Electrical design lead for the new wastewater treatment plant. The electrical 
distribution system is rated for 1.5 megavolt-amperes with critical system loads backed 
up with a standby diesel generator. Worked extensively with the electrical contractor 
during construction to provide real-time inspections and clarification. Total construction 
costs were $15.5 million. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 
 



 

 

E. RESUMES OF KEY PERSONNEL PROPOSED FOR THIS SERVICE CATEGORY  
(Complete one Section E for each key person.) 

12. NAME  

Matthew Baldwin, P.E. 
13. ROLE IN THIS CONTRACT  

Civil Engineer 
14. YEARS EXPERIENCE  

a. TOTAL 

16 
b. WITH CURRENT FIRM 

14 
15. FIRM NAME AND LOCATION (City and State) 

Jacobs, Corvallis, Oregon 
16. EDUCATION (DEGREE AND SPECIALIZATION) 

M.S./2004/Civil Engineering  
B.S./1999/Mechanical Engineering  

17. CURRENT PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION (STATE AND DISCIPLINE) 

Professional Engineer (Civil), Hawaii (PE-17133), 2016; California 
(C71817), 2007; Oregon (60202PE), 2014; Washington (57827), 
2019 
Land Surveyor-in-Training: Oregon (2004, 62020LSIT) 

18. OTHER PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS (Publications, Organizations, Training, Awards, etc.) 

Matt is a civil engineer with almost 16 years of experience in many aspects of site design including site layout, grading, yard 
piping, stormwater management, erosion control, and pavement design. He is an organized, highly-motivated and detail-directed 
problem solver known for developing high-quality design drawings and specifications for permitting and construction. 

19. RELEVANT PROJECTS 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Lahaina Wastewater Reclamation Facility Stage 1A Improvements, County of 
Maui, Hawaii 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2020 

CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable)  

a. 
(3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Lead Civil Engineer for the expansion of the wastewater treatment plant for the County 
of Maui. Performed site design at the step feed aeration basin and the headworks 
splitter box and site paving as well as site layout, and yard piping connections in an 
already congested yard. Established site demolition plans; designed grading, and access; 
and coordinated yard piping and pipe connections throughout the plant.  Supported 
project during construction through submittal and RFI responses and was engaged in 
resolving field issues with the contractor.    

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 On Call Services, City of Millersburg, Oregon 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

Ongoing 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable)  

b. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Project Manager responsible for meeting with the client on a regular basis to check in 
on their engineering needs. Tasks were identified, scoped and budgeted including small 
repair and construction projects within the city limits.  Matt managed junior engineering 
staff to complete the design work, facilitate soliciting quotes for the work and perform 
construction inspection. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 North City Water Reclamation Plant, City of San Diego, California 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2019 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
c. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Lead yard piping engineer for the expansion of the wastewater treatment plant for the 
City of San Diego. Pipe materials included reinforced concrete pipe, ductile iron, FRPMP, 
HDPE, and PVC ranging in size from 8- to 96-inches in diameter. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Waianae Wastewater Treatment Plant Improvements and Upgrade, City and 
County of Honolulu, Waianae, Oahu, Hawaii 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2017 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
d. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Civil Engineer of Record for the wastewater treatment plant improvement and upgrades 
for the City and County of Honolulu.  Project included new piping for the plant recycled 
water system and connections to all existing service points.  Supported project during 
construction through submittal and RFI responses, coordination with owner’s 
representative and was engaged on resolving field issues. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

  



 

 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Carmen-Smith Improvements Project, Eugene Water and Electric Board, 
Eugene, Oregon 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2013 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
e. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Matt was the Lead Civil Engineer for the fish passage improvements required by the 
FERC relicensing Settlement Agreement at the Carmen-Smith Hydropower Project. He 
also served as the facility lead for designing downstream fish passage at Trail Bridge 
Dam, temporary fish passage at Sweetwater Creek, and flow release study at Smith 
Dam. During this course of the project, Matt designed access roads, grading and 
coordinated with geotechnical engineers with respect to dam penetration and 
excavation details. He also collaborated with fish and terrestrial biologists to meet fish 
passage requirements and construction impacts within sensitive habitat areas. He 
developed impact management plans for structurally complex habitat area. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 
 



 

 

E. RESUMES OF KEY PERSONNEL PROPOSED FOR THIS SERVICE CATEGORY  
(Complete one Section E for each key person.) 

12. NAME  

Jim Sackinger, P.E. 
13. ROLE IN THIS CONTRACT  

Lead Mechanical Engineer 
14. YEARS EXPERIENCE  

a. TOTAL 

35 
b. WITH CURRENT FIRM 

17 
15. FIRM NAME AND LOCATION (City and State) 

Jacobs, Corvallis, Oregon 
16. EDUCATION (DEGREE AND SPECIALIZATION) 

B.S./1983/Environmental Engineering 
17. CURRENT PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION (STATE AND DISCIPLINE) 

Professional Engineer (Mechanical), Washington (30676), 1994; 
California (M25582), 1988; Colorado (46239), 2012; Hawaii 
(17074), 2016; Nebraska (E-15793), 2015; Oregon (14585PE), 
1989; Texas (119574), 2015 

18. OTHER PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS (Publications, Organizations, Training, Awards, etc.) 

Jim is a discipline lead for Building Mechanical Engineering at Jacobs. He has extensive experience in mechanical design, 
specification, and construction. He designs heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC), utility piping, industrial plumbing 
and piping systems, boilers and chillers, compressed air, and pumping systems. Jim also performs energy, acoustic, code, hazard, 
and corrosion analysis for processes and buildings. He is an effective supervisor and has provided quality control services for 
engineering and design on numerous projects. 

19. RELEVANT PROJECTS 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Solids Handling Improvements, Clackamas County Water Environment 
Services/Tri-City Water Resource Recovery Facility, Clackamas 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2018 

CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable) 

Ongoing 

a. 
(3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Jim engineered a complex remodel and expansion of existing solids facilities in restricted 
space. He designed HVAC utilizing cogenerated hydronic heat and utilized non-
mechanical cooling for the electrical room. Jim navigated complex Fire Code issues and 
was responsible for designing HVAC, plumbing and fire protection for hazardous and 
corrosive spaces, and he is currently providing construction support. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Headworks Facility, City of San Jose/Santa Clara Water Reclamation Facility, 
San Jose, California 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

Ongoing 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable)  

b. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Jim served as Building Mechanical Engineer on this design-build project for the largest 
tertiary wastewater treatment plant in the western United States. He designed 
redundant non-mechanical cooling for the electrical building and control room, 
provided ventilation of hazardous corrosive areas, plumbing, drainage and fire 
protection design. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Cogeneration Facility, City of San Jose/Santa Clara Water Reclamation Facility, 
San Jose, California 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2018 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

Ongoing 
c. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Jim engineered complex interfaces between the new 18-megawatt cogeneration plant 
and existing cogeneration, hydronic heating, chilled, and domestic facility systems on 
this design-build project. He provided a feasibility study and follow-through to design. 
Jim designed engine cooling and sound attenuation, converted a 250-ton heat 
absorption type chiller system to mechanical vapor compression, and provided 
plumbing, drainage and fire protection design for three buildings. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Water Pollution Control Plant Upgrades, City of Midland, Midland, Texas PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2018 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

Ongoing 
d. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

As mechanical engineer on this design-build project, Jim designed process drainage, 
plumbing, and fire protection for seven new buildings in this existing sewage treatment 
plant. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

  



 

 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Oxygen Plant Improvements, Central Tacoma Wastewater Treatment Plant, 
City of Tacoma, Washington 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2011 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

2013 
e. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Jim was responsible for air side and water side heat rejection improvements for this 
pressure swing absorption (PSA) oxygen facility utilizing three each, 400-hp air 
compressors. He provided a proof-of-concept study for heat rejection to wastewater 
and then provided additional design for ventilation cooling and controls, including 
acoustic analysis. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 
 



 

 

E. RESUMES OF KEY PERSONNEL PROPOSED FOR THIS SERVICE CATEGORY  
(Complete one Section E for each key person.) 

12. NAME  

Michael Eller, P.E. 
13. ROLE IN THIS CONTRACT  

Geotechnical Engineer 
14. YEARS EXPERIENCE  

a. TOTAL 

12 
b. WITH CURRENT FIRM 

10  
15. FIRM NAME AND LOCATION (City and State) 

Jacobs, Corvallis, Oregon 
16. EDUCATION (DEGREE AND SPECIALIZATION) 

M.S./2010/Civil Engineering  
B.S./2006/Civil Engineering  

17. CURRENT PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION (STATE AND DISCIPLINE) 

Professional Engineer (Civil), Hawaii (17039), 2016; California 
(75762), 2010; Oregon (89805), 2015  

18. OTHER PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS (Publications, Organizations, Training, Awards, etc.) 

Michael is a geotechnical engineer with experience in design and project management. His geotechnical expertise includes 
planning and leading geotechnical exploration programs for foundation design, performing seismic hazard evaluations and site-
response analyses, settlement and slope stability evaluations. A significant portion of Michael’s professional experience has 
involved the evaluation and design of dams, levees, reservoirs, and water and wastewater treatment facilities in seismically 
active areas like the west coast of the U.S. and Hawaii. As a design and project manager, Michael has experience leading multi-
disciplinary design teams and has served as assistant project manager for several design and construction projects. 

19. RELEVANT PROJECTS 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Lahaina Wastewater Reclamation Facility Stage 1A Improvements, Maui, 
Hawaii 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2016 

CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable) 

2020 

a. 
(3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

The County of Maui looked to restore the treatment capacity at the Lahaina wastewater 
reclamation facility by adding several new structures, including an aeration basin and 
secondary clarifier. Involvement included serving as Geotechnical Lead, coordinating 
exploration program, performing analysis and summarizing design recommendations 
including seismic hazard evaluations, and developing specifications and construction 
documents. During construction, Michael was on site to provide geotechnical support 
during construction, particularly with the deep excavations required for the new 
infrastructure. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Pacific In-Flight Interceptor Communication System Data Terminal, U.S. Army 
Corps of Engineers, Oahu, Hawaii 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2020 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable)  

b. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

In support of the proposed Homeland Defense Radar – Hawaii, the new Data Terminal 
will provide additional capability to the Ballistic Missile Defense System. The project was 
a joint effort with a partnering firm, while cross-collaborating with other design firms 
and the USACE working at the site. Michael served as the Geotechnical lead for the 
design of the Data Terminal, coordinating the geotechnical exploration program of the 
project, performing analysis and developing design and construction recommendations. 
Project was put on hold at 35% Design Level. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Riverside Park Water Reclamation Facility, Phase 1 and 2 Improvements, City 
of Spokane, Washington 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES  CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable) 

Ongoing  
c. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

The City of Spokane is expanding and improving their wastewater treatment facility 
along the Spokane River, and will include a new primary clarifier, chemical storage 
building, and membrane treatment facility that is capable treating 150 mgd. Michael 
served as the geotechnical engineer, coordinating the site exploration program, 
performing analysis and design to support design and construction of the facilities, 
which included the design of a large, 40-ft high anchored soldier pile wall and 600-feet 
long, 60-feet high reinforced soil slope to accommodate the construction. Phase 1 has 
been constructed and Phase 2 is currently under construction. During construction, 
Michael provides engineering support to the City and the Contractor as needed. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

  



 

 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Tri City Water Resource Recovery Facility Solids Handling Improvements 
Project, Clackamas County, Oregon 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES  CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable) 

Ongoing 
d. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Clackamas County is looking to expand their wastewater treatment capacity by adding a 
new digester and several additional structures, including a dewatering feed tanks, 
digester feed tanks, and a digester control building. The site is already developed and 
several structures are adjacent to the proposed work area. In addition to the tight site 
constraints, the design must also account for potential seismic hazards such as 
liquefaction and slope instability. Michael performed geotechnical investigation and 
seismic hazard evaluations to assess the lateral spreading susceptibility of the site, and 
to assess potential settlement due to liquefaction. Ground improvement methods were 
assessed and developed for design, including the development of an anchored secant 
pile wall for excavation support for the new digester while maintaining the stability of 
the existing adjacent structures. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Beaver Creek Water Supply and Treatment Project, Seal Rock Water District, 
Oregon 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2020 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

Ongoing 
e. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Project consists of river intake, raw water pump station, approximately 2 miles of 14-
inch HDPE pipeline, and water treatment facility including two welded steel tanks with 
capacity of 0.25 MG and 0.5 MG. Project is situated along Oregon coast and susceptible 
to strong seismic ground motions. District’s goal was to produce a seismic resilient 
system. Michael served as geotechnical engineer, performing site exploration and 
design for the project. Extensive coordination with design and permitting teams was 
required throughout design. Intake and pump station are situated on soft compressible 
soils, requiring several different methods to address static settlement and potential 
settlement due to a seismic event. Project construction is currently underway. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 
 



 

 

E. RESUMES OF KEY PERSONNEL PROPOSED FOR THIS SERVICE CATEGORY  
(Complete one Section E for each key person.) 

12. NAME  

Paul Davis P.E., G.E. 
13. ROLE IN THIS CONTRACT  

Geotechnical Engineer 
14. YEARS EXPERIENCE  

a. TOTAL 

24 
b. WITH CURRENT FIRM 

24 
15. FIRM NAME AND LOCATION (City and State) 

Jacobs, Corvallis, Oregon 
16. EDUCATION (DEGREE AND SPECIALIZATION) 

M.S./1996/Geotechnical Engineering  
B.S./1995/Civil Engineering  

17. CURRENT PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION (STATE AND DISCIPLINE) 

Geotechnical Engineer, Oregon (65715PE)  
Professional Engineer, Hawaii (PE-17359); Washington (41562), 
2005  

18. OTHER PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS (Publications, Organizations, Training, Awards, etc.) 

Paul is a geotechnical engineer with Jacobs’ Design and Construction Group. He performs geotechnical and civil engineering 
evaluations and prepares plans and specifications for a variety of construction projects. Specializations include evaluations 
relating to foundations, retaining structures, embankments, solid waste management, geosynthetic design, soil liquefaction and 
amplification and other engineering services for projects requiring earthwork consulting. He coordinates geotechnical field 
exploration programs, evaluates geotechnical field and laboratory testing information, develops design recommendations, and 
prepares design reports for a wide variety of geotechnical engineering projects. 

19. RELEVANT PROJECTS 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Honolulu Authority for Rapid Transit (HART) Consolidation Cell Design, Hawaii 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

Ongoing 

CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable)  

a. 
(3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Soil Debris Pile Construction. RHS Lee Baseyard. Pearl City, Oahu. Design of 
Consolidation/Impoundment Cell of solid waste materials. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 HART Geotechnical Baseline Report for Pearl Highlands Parking Structure, 
Transit Center, and H2R1 Ramp. Pearl City, Oahu, Hawaii 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2017 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable)  

b. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Submitted August 2017. Honolulu Authority for Rapid Transit. Honolulu Rail Transit 
Project. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Waianae Wastewater Treatment Plant Improvements and Upgrade, Hawaii 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2017 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
c. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Lead geotechnical engineer for improvements and additions to existing facility. Design 
analyses and contract documents package. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Lead Geotechnical Engineer, HI ANG TFI F-22 Beddown – Add to Bldg 3385 
(Communications/Control), Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam, Hawaii 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2013 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
d. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Addition to the existing Communications Facility Building 3385 and associated 
pavements supporting the beddown of PAA, F/A-22 aircraft.  Prepare scope of work for 
geotechnical exploration subcontractor services, geotechnical/foundation design, and 
construction oversight of micro-pile foundation system. Oversight Pacific Geotechnical 
subcontracting engineer for procurement of driller and preparation of geotechnical 
report. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

  



 

 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Lead Geotechnical Engineer; HI ANG, F-22 LOCRF, Joint Base Pearl Harbor-
Hickam, Hawaii 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2012 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
e. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

Through a TO under an IDIQ, oversight of geotechnical investigation and data reports, 
and provided foundation engineering designs for this 38,000-SF facility. Used knowledge 
and understanding of island soils (lagoonal deposits over loose sand, coral, and bedrock) 
and to provide geotechnical design services for deep foundations including seismic 
techniques. Used stone columns in lieu of piles to mitigate for seismic hazard mitigation 
(liquefaction and lateral spreading). The facility received LEED Gold certification. Project 
awarded 2013 USAF Design Award. Cost: $2.9M (Professional Services). Cost: $22.M 
(construction). Oversight of Pacific Geotechnical subcontracting engineer for 
procurement of driller and preparation of geotechnical report. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 
 



 

 

E. RESUMES OF KEY PERSONNEL PROPOSED FOR THIS SERVICE CATEGORY  
(Complete one Section E for each key person.) 

12. NAME  

Tom Jones 
13. ROLE IN THIS CONTRACT  

Senior Cost Estimator 
14. YEARS EXPERIENCE  

a. TOTAL 

25 
b. WITH CURRENT FIRM 

13 
15. FIRM NAME AND LOCATION (City and State) 

Jacobs, Corvallis, Oregon 
16. EDUCATION (DEGREE AND SPECIALIZATION) 

University of New Mexico, various undergraduate classes 
United States Air Force, Engineering Assistant Training 

17. CURRENT PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION (STATE AND DISCIPLINE) 

N/A 

18. OTHER PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS (Publications, Organizations, Training, Awards, etc.) 

Tom has more than 25 years of experience in the construction industry, including construction project management, estimating, 
contract administration, scheduling, material and equipment procurement, and communications with Owner and engineer. He 
has experience developing construction and cost estimates for a range of infrastructure projects, including nearly $1B of water 
and wastewater treatment facilities. Tom’s experience also includes estimating complex projects, anticipating market conditions, 
prevailing wages, production rates, and other factors that affect costs. Proven record in producing cost estimates that are 
accurate in scope and within the range of accuracy established by AACE International. 

19. RELEVANT PROJECTS 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Honouliuli WWTP Secondary Treatment, Phase 1A-Sludge Drying and Related 
Facilities, City and County of Honolulu, Hawaii 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2018 

CONSTRUCTION (If 
applicable)  

a. 
(3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

The project is completing the Phase 1A Design and providing Bid Phase Support Services 
for the Honouliuli WWTP (HLIWWTP) Secondary Treatment Expansion Project. Phase 1A 
will include a new Cake Receiving Facility, a new Dryer Facility, dried product screening 
and quality control equipment, new Dewatering Centrifuges, new Pellet Storage and 
Unloading Facility, a new Temporary Pellet Storage Facility, a new Operations Building 
attached to the new Dryer Facility for contract operations, and the demolition of 
existing facilities. Approximate construction costs of $66 million. Final engineers 
estimate was within 13% of the low bidder. Tom was responsible for the preparation of 
a Class 3, Class 2, and Class 1 cost estimates based upon design documents. Collected 
data and performing quantity take-offs to uses as inputs for the cost estimate to 
determine and reconcile project scope. Applied costs to scope items and compiled the 
information into a Basis of Estimate document. Worked with project team to review and 
confirm project scope and estimate pricing. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 Waianae Wastewater Treatment Plant Improvements and Upgrade Project, 
City and County of Honolulu, Hawaii 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2019 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable)  

b. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

The City and County of Honolulu is evaluating improvements needed at the Waianae 
Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) to meet regulatory requirements and future 
wastewater demands. Approximate construction costs of $13 million. Final engineers 
estimate was within 5% of the low bidder. Tom was responsible for the preparation of a 
Class 3, Class 2, and Class 1 cost estimates based upon design documents. Collected 
data and performed quantity take-offs to uses as inputs for the cost estimate to 
determine and reconcile project scope. Applied costs to scope items and compiled the 
information into a Basis of Estimate document. Worked with project team to review and 
confirm project scope and estimate pricing. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 City of Tracy WWTP – Phase 2B Expansion, California 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

Ongoing 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
c. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

This project includes the work required to expand the treatment capacity of the existing 
WWTP, including site work, Septage Receiving, Headworks, Grit Removal, Primary 
Clarifier, Dewatering Pump Station, Aeration Basin, Digesters, Dewatering Facility, and 
modifications to existing facilities. Approximate construction costs of $50 million. Tom is 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 



 

 

a Senior Cost Estimator for the project and is responsible for the preparation of a Class 3 
and Class 2 cost estimates based upon design documents. Collecting data and 
performing quantity take-offs to uses as inputs for the cost estimate to determine and 
reconcile project scope. Applying costs to scope items and compiled the information 
into a Basis of Estimate document. Working with project team to review and confirm 
project scope and estimate pricing. 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Haikey Creek – Activated Sludge Management Rehabilitation, Oklahoma 
Department of Environmental Quality, Regional Metropolitan Utility 
Authority, Oklahoma 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2019 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 

d. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

The purpose of the Regional Metropolitan Utility Authority (RMUA) Haikey Creek 
Wastewater Treatment Plant (HCWWTP) Activated Sludge project is to improve 
operations at HCWWTP by increasing the Maximum Month Average Day capacity to 16 
MGD. The facilities that are included in this project are a new Blower Building, Aeration 
Basins, Headworks Junction Box and a Mixed Liquor Junction Box. Approximate 
construction costs of $19 million. Final engineers estimate was within 2% of the low 
bidder. Prepared Class 3, Class 2, and Class 1 cost estimates based upon design 
documents. Collected data and performing quantity take-offs to uses as inputs for the 
cost estimate to determine and reconcile project scope. Applied costs to scope items 
and compiled the information into a Basis of Estimate document. Worked with project 
team to review and confirm project scope and estimate pricing. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 (1) TITLE AND LOCATION (City and State) (2) YEAR COMPLETED 

 
Water Station #1 – Phase 2, Reservoir and Security Upgrades, City of 
Vancouver, Washington 

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 

2019 
CONSTRUCTION (If 

applicable) 

 
e. (3) BRIEF DESCRIPTION (Brief scope, size, cost, etc.) AND SPECIFIC ROLE 

This project is for the construction of two 4MG Prestressed Concrete Tanks and a 1MG 
Steel Standpipe at the Water Station #1 in Vancouver, Washington. Approximate 
construction costs of $23 million. Final engineers estimate was within 10% of the low 
bidder. Prepared Class 3, Class 2, and Class 1 cost estimates based upon design 
documents. Collected data and performing quantity take-offs to uses as inputs for the 
cost estimate to determine and reconcile project scope. Applied costs to scope items 
and compiled the information into a Basis of Estimate document. Worked with project 
team to review and confirm project scope and estimate pricing. 

 Check if project performed with current 
firm 

 
 


	Cover
	Cover Letter
	Questionnaires
	Attachments
	Tools For Collaboration
	CPES Factsheet
	Wastewater Process Simulation
	Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (WIFIA)

	Resumes
	Ross Kaneko
	Tony Ali
	Diane Wakamatsu
	Abbey Mayer 
	Nancy Nishikawa
	Bruce Johnson
	Bill Leaf 
	Dale Gabel
	Kandi Maestri
	Carl Koester
	Darren Edwards
	Bryan Youker
	Jennifer Chang
	Stephanie McGregor
	Lionel Wood
	Scott Cowden
	Alexander Demith
	Larry Schimmoller
	Alex Firth
	Katrina Pearson
	Geoffrey Kirsten
	Ryan Harbert
	Tiana Michaud
	Roger Collette
	Matthew Baldwin
	James Sackinger
	Michael Eller
	Paul Davis
	Tom Jones




